The beloved Swiss national dish consists of cheese melted down with white wine in a "caquelon" pot heated by an open flame. Pixabay/MW GENEVA - As Switzerland contends with one of the worst coronavirus surges in Europe, the Swiss are gripped by one melting-hot question: is it still safe to share a fondue? The beloved Swiss national dish consists of cheese melted down with white wine in a "caquelon" pot heated by an open flame. By tradition, Swiss cheese fondue is eaten by dipping in bread with long-handled forks, with several friends or relatives joining in and sharing the same pot. But can the convivial Swiss culinary experience still be done safely in the midst of a pandemic? READ: Switzerland reports first coronavirus death Internet sages are piling in on the hot topic. "Eat your fondue with a fishing rod", reads one suggestion for maintaining physical distancing. Another -- with a touch more realism -- proposes: "Each guest takes two forks and a knife, and it's fixed: one fork to dip in the fondue, the knife to help remove the bread and the second fork to eat it." Switzerland Cheese Marketing is also making reassuring noises. The industry body insists it has studied the question closely and has concluded: "The risk of contracting COVID-19 while enjoying a fondue with other diners is negligible." READ: Europe's coronavirus infections top 11 million Put simply by Professor Christian Ruef, a Zurich-based infectious disease specialist: "In the fondue pot, the cheese reaches a sufficient temperature to kill any virus." Whether it's a classic half-and-half mix of Vacherin and Gruyere cheeses, or a fondue done with tomatoes, morels or other variations, dipping in and eating, therefore, presents no risk in itself. However, Ruef recommended sticking to small groups, or even a fondue just for two. "The problem arises if you are seated together in a small space for an evening, and are talking loudly, laughing or even singing," he said. "These are ideal conditions for spreading the virus." Gerald Bongioanni, manager of Geneva's historic Cafe du Soleil, which normally serves up to 300 fondues a day during winter, put it succinctly: "The risk is not in the fondue pot but in the gathering."