ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule is expected to appear in court on charges of corruption. Detractors and supporters of the SG explained why they were outside the courthouse. Courtesy of #DStv403 BLOEMFONTEIN - ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule's supporters have gathered at the Bloemfontein magistrate's court ahead of his appearance on Friday. Many of the supporters were dressed in ANC regalia in defiance of the ruling party's directive not to support alleged corrupt officials in court. READ: Ramaphosa shies away from Magashule question Some of the supporters of the embattled senior party member explained why they came from far and wide to support the secretary-general. There are those who claim his corruption charges are a plot to discredit him. READ: Magashule supporters hold night vigil ahead of court appearance ANC member Malefu Mofokeng said, "we know Ace Magashule is not corrupt and he's not guilty. These charges are saying he is charged with failure to oversee the mismanagement of R250-million (sic). We are surprised because if that was the case, there was a mismanagement of R500-billion that was mismanaged now, as Cyril [Ramaphosa] is the president of the country. "We are aware of sabotage." Mofokeng claims that the charges being brought against the secretary-general are to prevent him from standing for president. NC spokesperson Dakota Legoete spoke with eNCA reporter Aviwe Mtila. Courtesy of #DStv403 Politicians, mostly appearing without ANC colours, have also explained their support for the secretary-general. Former North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo said he believes in Magashule's innocence. ANC spokesperson Dakota Legoete said, "I'm here as an individual, also as a leader of the African National Congress, to come and support the secretary-general of the ANC. "We are here also, to ensure that there is sanity, there is stability, all members of the ANC must be in line and in order. We are here to ensure that this particular situation and circumstances, do not bring more pain to the African National Congress." Legoete said if members of the ANC have come to support Magashule as individuals, they will not discourage them from doing so.