Honor has been purchased by a group of 40 companies comprised of agents, distributors and other businesses dependent on the brand's survival. AFP/Sajjad Hussain SHANGHAI - Chinese telecom giant Huawei announced it has sold its Honor budget phone line to a domestic consortium in a move it said was necessary to keep the brand alive amid "tremendous" supply chain pressures caused by US sanctions. Honor has been purchased by a group of 40 companies comprised of agents, distributors and other businesses dependent on the brand's survival, Huawei and the consortium said in separate statements. Huawei, which earlier this year became the world's top mobile phone seller, said its consumer business "has been under tremendous pressure" due to a growing inability to acquire components as the US seeks to cut the company off from the global supply chain. READ: Huawei revenue growth wilts under 'intense pressure' The sale appears aimed at getting Honor out from under the Huawei umbrella, thereby allowing the brand to source components without being affected by the US sanctions. "This sale will help Honor's channel sellers and suppliers make it through this difficult time," said Huawei, based in the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen. The sale is the latest sign that Huawei -- also the world's largest supplier of telecommunications networking equipment -- is being squeezed hard by the US campaign against it. READ: Huawei releases OS source code in push for own ecosystem The administration of President Donald Trump alleges that Huawei has close ties to China's government and military and that the equipment it has installed globally could be used by Beijing for espionage. Both China's government and the company deny the accusation and say that the United States has never produced any evidence backing up its allegations. Washington has taken steps to bar Huawei from the US market and prevent US companies doing business with it, has moved to cut off its access to global supplies of semiconductors and other components, and pressured other countries to shun Huawei telecom gear. Huawei officials have said the attacks are motivated more by a US desire to bring down a successful business rival.