Residents of a rural Eastern Cape village are fearful of relocation when a multibillion-rand road cuts through their area. Construction of the N2 Wild Coast toll road is already forging ahead, with a projected completion date of 2025. eNCA's Dasen Thathiah spoke to Sigidi residents about their reservations. Courtesy #DStv403 BIZANA - Residents of a rural Eastern Cape village are fearful of relocation when a multibillion-rand road cuts through their area. Construction of the N2 Wild Coast toll road is already forging ahead, with a projected completion date of 2025. Mashona Dlamini claims government disregards residents' input on matters relating to the area.
"They do everything behind our backs, they don't want to communicate with us," Dlamini said. "Every time we want to talk to them, they run away." But their biggest complaint is about a national road that will soon cut through this farming village. READ: Mbalula: No one will stop development The N2 Wild Coast toll road spans more than 500 kilometres and includes two mega-bridges.
It's touted to improve tourism and will shorten interprovincial trips down the coast by up to three hours.
Three routes were identified near Sigidi but some residents feel the most disruptive one was chosen.
The South African National Roads Agency (Sanral) last year won a court battle which effectively bolsters its position to continue the R10-billion project.
Sanral says only two villages out of 60 are opposing the new road. READ: Sanral pushes on with Wild Coast upgrades "It's actually been quite a frustrating process because we would love to go in and talk to the communities and we've tried several times," said Sanral's Craig McLachlan. "We get chased away by those communities who are then turning around and saying that we're not communicating with them."
Sigidi locals are adamant they will hold onto their land.
But the N2 project is well on its way and it's seemingly only a matter of time before the rural quiet is pierced by the sound of heavy machinery. * eNCA's Dasen Thathiah spoke to Sigidi residents about their reservations. Watch the video above.