Daniil Medvedev, who beat five-time champion Novak Djokovic and world number two Rafael Nadal earlier in the week, is the first man to beat all three of the world's top-ranked players at the season finale. AFP/Glyn Kirk LONDON - Daniil Medvedev came from behind to beat US Open champion Dominic Thiem in a gripping encounter and win the biggest title of his career at the ATP Finals in London on Sunday. The Russian fourth seed was second best for large periods at the empty O2 Arena but found a way back into the contest and prevailed 4-6, 7-6 (7/2), 6-4. Medvedev, who beat five-time champion Novak Djokovic and world number two Rafael Nadal earlier in the week, is the first man to beat all three of the world's top-ranked players at the season finale. The giant Russian has now won 10 consecutive matches following his title earlier this month at the Paris Masters and his victory will taste sweet a year after a winless debut in London. But it is a painful defeat for Thiem, who also lost in the final of the elite eight-man event last year, to Stefanos Tsitsipas. "What a match," said Medvedev. "One of my best victories, two hours and 42 minutes, three sets against an amazing player. "Dominic, congratulations already for what you achieved in your career. Your name is already in the history of tennis books. "It is amazing. You won a Grand Slam this year. You are playing unbelievable. I hope we are going to have many more matches to come on the big occasions like this." Thiem remained under pressure and had to battle hard to avoid going down another break. But all Medvedev now had to do was keep his nerve. He did so as he served out for victory. "Of course, I am disappointed, but at the same time I am also proud of the performance of all the week," said Thiem. "Daniil really deserved it. It was an amazing match." Medvedev is the first Russian to win the ATP Finals since 2009, when Nikolay Davydenko triumphed at the first edition of the season finale held in London. Next year, the tournament moves to Turin in Italy.