The Bulls' Morne Steyn with a kick at goal during the Super Rugby Unlocked match between the Emirates Lions and the Vodacom Bulls. AFP/Christiaan Kotze JOHANNESBURG - Bulls centre Stedman Gans bagged his fifth South African Super Rugby Unlocked try this season to turn the tide Saturday in a 30-25 fifth-round victory over the Lions. He intercepted a pass from Lions captain and fly-half Elton Jantjies and scored, with veteran Bulls playmaker Morne Steyn converting for a 20-15 lead on 50 minutes. Winger Kurt-Lee Arendse struck another crucial blow for the Bulls with nine minutes left by crossing the tryline and Steyn once again added the extra two points to leave the Lions eight points adrift. All the home side could manage in reply was a post-hooter penalty from Jantjies that earned a losing bonus point for the Johannesburg outfit behind closed doors at Ellis Park due to the coronavirus pandemic. Victory for frontrunners the Bulls left them well placed to win the single-round competition which signalled the return of rugby last month after a six-month break due to Covid-19. They have a bye next weekend, then host the lowly Pumas in Pretoria needing a bonus-point victory to put themselves beyond the reach of challengers the Stormers, Sharks and Cheetahs. "I am happy with the win but not the performance," said Bulls captain and back-row forward Duane Vermeulen, a key figure in the 2019 Springbok Rugby World Cup-winning team. "We play much better at home than away. It is a mental thing and we need to work on it. Credit to the Lions for their intensity." Steyn, at 36 the general of the Bulls team having returned from a seven-year stint with Stade Francais, kicked three conversions and three penalties and the Bulls' other try came from hooker Joe van Zyl. His 15-point haul made Steyn the leading scorer in the competition with 62 points and Gans is the top try scorer. Scrum-half Morne van den Berg and centres Burger Odendaal and Wandisile Simelane scored a try each for the Lions while Jantjies slotted two conversions and two penalties.