Extortionists used to target foreign-owned businesses and nightclubs in the Cape Town CBD but in the past few months, suspected gangsters have been demanding "protection money" from all kinds of businesses. Courtesy of #DStv403 CAPE TOWN - Western Cape businesses -- already suffering the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic -- are being victimised by extortion. Some are being asked for up to 30 percent of their income as "protection money". On Wednesday, a police officer appeared in court alongside an accomplice for the extortion and murder of a shopkeeper in Kayamandi. READ: Criminals allegedly demand protection fee from Khayelitsha residents The bail application of the 26-year-old Stellenbosch police officer and his co-accused was postponed to Monday. The pair is accused of murder and extortion after an Ethiopian shopkeeper was killed for allegedly failing to pay "protection money" in February.
Extortionists used to target foreign-owned businesses and nightclubs in the Cape Town CBD but in the past few months, suspected gangsters have been demanding "protection money" from all kinds of businesses. READ: Gang violence shoots up another level in WCape Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Janine Myburgh said it has escalated to coffee shops, hairdressers, and construction companies. "We've even heard that backyard dwellers that are employed have been asked for sections of their salaries for security. It is unacceptable." It is suspected that the Gugulethu Massacre of 2 November, in which eight people were shot and killed, was linked to gangs involved in extortion practices.
Four people were arrested last weekend in the Eastern Cape, in connection with the Gugulethu incident and several others. "We were particularly encouraged when Minister [Bheki] Cele on the 16th [October] visited the CBD to investigate this issue but since then he promised us that there would be a task team but we haven't seen it and we haven't seen a decrease in extortion." The police minister has said that plans for the transversal steering committee on organised crime and extortion in the province were delayed due to top cop Charl Kinnear's murder.