Search and rescue teams look for victims at the site of a collapsed building in Izmir after a powerful earthquake struck Turkey's western coast and parts of Greece. AFP/Ozan Kose BAYRAKLI - Rescuers pulled two children from the rubble in a town in Turkey on Monday, delivering hope nearly three days after a major earthquake hit the Aegean, killing 93 people and ruining dozens of buildings. Three-year-old Elif Perincek was rescued 65 hours after the 7.0-magnitude quake left a trail of destruction in western Turkey and eastern Greece on Friday, Turkey's AFAD emergency authority said. Local media showed a video of a little girl wrapped up in a foil blanket quickly taken to safety in the coastal town of Bayrakli -- the hardest hit by the disaster -- as rescue workers broke into applause. READ: Turkey quake death toll rises to 51 in Turkey Hours later, Turkish state television showed images of the girl, her right eye closed by a purple bruise, waving to the camera from her hospital bed, a doll resting on her chest. Muammer Celik, a fireman who found and saved Elif, told AFP he thought the toddler was dead when he saw her lying on her back, covered by white dust. A photo of Elif holding Celik's hand went viral in Turkey. The fireman said she did not let go until she was taken to a tent for safety nearby. READ: Rescuers race to find Turkey quake survivors, 28 dead Elif was the 106th person pulled out alive from collapsed buildings in Bayrakli and surrounding towns and cities in western Turkey. Her mother and three siblings were pulled out on Saturday night, although her rescued brother later died, the TRT state broadcaster said. AFAD also reported the rescue of 14-year-old Idil Sirin in Bayrakli, 58 hours after the quake hit. READ: Six dead, buildings collapse as major quake hits Turkey, Greece But the Sirin family's joy was brief as the lifeless body of Idil's sister, Ipek, was found, the Hurriyet newspaper reported. Turkey's toll from the quake is continuing to rise, with AFAD reporting 91 dead. Nearly 1,000 people were injured and more than 150 were still in hospital.