The Human Rights Commission will be taking the PAC to court. It's looking into allegations of hate speech and vandalism during protests at Brackenfell High School recently.  #eNCA Courtesy #DStv403 CAPE TOWN - The South Africa Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) will be taking the PAC to the Equality Court, following recent protests near Brackenfell High School in Cape Town in which the PAC took part. The school has been at the centre of a racism row for several weeks, over a private matric party held at a different venue. There are allegations the event excluded pupils of colour, but the school has denied this. READ: EFF members' public violence case postponed The SAHRC held a press briefing after it told the media it's investigating a variety of complaints relating to the Brackenfell High protests. The commission says the PAC used hate speech in its slogan: 'One Settler, One Bullet' during the march. Both the PAC and EFF have demonstrated against alleged racism at the school. The EFF complained about police brutality during Friday's protest in Brackenfell. The Human Rights Commission is investigating claims of racism at the Brackenfell High School in Cape Town. It's also looking into allegations of hate speech and vandalism during EFF protests at the school. #eNCA Courtesy #DStv403 SAHRC Commissioner Andre Gaum says, "there are several complaints of hate speech we are investigating, some laid against EFF, but the one we have decided that we can take now to the Equality Court is the PAC chant 'one settler, one bullet'. In that regard, we are taking that matter to the Equality Court." READ: Brackenfell School Protest: Clashes break out in EFF crowd The PAC, however, say the slogan is a part of their heritage and that the SAHRC should focus their attention on more important issues on racism. PAC president Mzwanele Nyhontso said, "We can't be worried (about) our heritage. It is up to them to explain how it is hate speech." The commission says it's also consulting with the Western Cape Education Department to address the racism claims against Brackenfell High School. Watch the videos above for more details.