Political parties will go head-to-head in 95 by-elections in municipalities countrywide. In Johannesburg, the Patriotic Alliance and the ANC will face-off. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Political parties face off in 95 by-elections in municipalities countrywide on Wednesday. The ANC governs Johannesburg with a majority by one seat -- supplied by the Patriotic Alliance (PA) -- but their relationship has deteriorated. The Patriotic Alliance said it is fighting for coloured people's issues, and won't apologise for it. The party's president said these by-elections present an opportunity for more influence. "We want them to vote for us so that we can bring the change," said Gayton McKenzie. WATCH: Battle for wards looms in by-elections "When you look at the City of Joburg, before the PA came in there was only one senior manager that was coloured. Since then there are multiple because this is a neglected community. They've forgotten about coloured people. "We are the kingmakers and we are going to show we are the kingmakers. They mustn't say we are talking big, the numbers show they won by one vote. Not two votes. And that's the vote of the PA." The ANC said it would rather go into opposition benches than subscribe to coloured nationalism.  
 
"If our principles will be so challenged, if our principles would be so tested, if our core values would be so violated by an opposition partner, we don't mind going back to the opposition benches," said Johannesburg ANC chairperson Geoff Makhubo. READ: Who stands to win or lose if SA were to hold all elections on the same day In Riverlea and Eldorado Park, the PA is trying to unseat the Democratic Alliance (DA), whose councillors have defected after years of growing support.  
Former Eldorado Park councillor Peter Rafferty said, "I've left the DA, I've thanked them for the opportunity but I felt that it was not the vehicle for me to do what I am supposed to do and making sure things happen for my community." On the streets of Riverlea, some residents are willing to give the PA a chance.  
Riverlea will vote on Wednesday while Eldorado Park by-elections will be held in January.