Bitcoin began its latest meteoric rise on 21 October after US online payments provider PayPal announced that it would enable account holders to use cryptocurrency. AFP/Ozan Kose LONDON - Bitcoin's rally above $15,000 has reignited the debate over whether the cryptocurrency is so-called digital gold or a perilously risky bet as investors grapple with the coronavirus pandemic. The world's most popular virtual unit has gained over 30 percent in value in almost three weeks up to Friday, taking it close to its December 2017 peak when it reached nearly $20,000. After a rollercoaster ride on markets since then, it began its latest meteoric rise on 21 October, after US online payments provider PayPal announced that it would enable account holders to use cryptocurrency. "It is the validation of a market which was still relatively uncertain a few years ago," said Simon Polrot, president of Paris-based crypto-assets association ADAN. READ: Bitcoin spikes to 13-month high on PayPal news Bitcoin was created in 2008 by the pseudonymous Satoshi Nakamoto, and marketed as an alternative to traditional currencies. Unregulated by any central bank, it was sold as an attractive option for investors with an appetite for the exotic -- although criminals have also seen its under-the-radar appeal. However, after bitcoin surpassed $1,000 for the first time in 2013, it has increasingly attracted the attention of financial institutions. Both gold and bitcoin are "mined" -- virtually, by computer users, in the cryptocurrency's case -- and have a finite supply, in contrast to hard cash printed in unlimited amounts by central banks. READ: Bitcoin plummets to six-month low on China crackdown Charles Morris, whose company ByteTree specialises in cryptocurrencies, argues bitcoin is "very much a growth asset, behaving like a tech stock". He noted that like gold, some people in Iran, Venezuela and Turkey have in recent years used cryptocurrency to shield their savings from runaway inflation. However, others point to the highly volatile and speculative nature of cryptocurrencies. "There is no room for bitcoin in a serious forex portfolio," said a London trader who asked to remain anonymous, noting the unit had lost a quarter of its value in March alone before resuming its rally more recently. "That would be a catastrophe for a forex trader -- we use gold to balance our portfolio."