Joe Biden has won the US presidential election and crowds have poured onto the streets of Washington and other cities in exuberant celebration. Courtesy of #DStv403 WASHINGTON - As news emerged that Joe Biden had won the US presidential election, crowds poured onto the streets of Washington and other cities in exuberant celebration. READ: Biden pledges to be president 'for all Americans' In the capital, the sound of car horns filled the streets, with hundreds gathering downtown -- whooping, laughing and clapping, in Black Lives Matter Plaza near the White House. Across the city, people came out onto porches, toasting the Biden victory with champagne and tequila, many of them glued to their phones as they shared the news. People poured into the streets of New York as well, yelling and clapping from balconies and banging on pans. People celebrate on Black Lives Matter plaza across from the White House in Washington, DC on November 7, 2020, after Joe Biden was declared the winner of the 2020 presidential election. Eric Baradat / AFP People celebrate at Times Square in New York after Joe Biden was declared winner of the 2020 presidential election on November 7, 2020. Kena Betancur / AFP People celebrate at Times Square in New York after Joe Biden was declared winner of the 2020 presidential election on November 7, 2020. Kena Betancur / AFP Tony Roberts (C) and others celebrate the news that Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden has seemingly won the election. Joe Raedle/Getty Images/AFP People celebrate on Black Lives Matter plaza in Washington, DC on November 7, 2020, after Joe Biden was declared the winner of the 2020 presidential election. Daniel Slim / AFP People celebrate on Black Lives Matter plaza across from the White House in Washington, DC on November 7, 2020, after Joe Biden was declared the winner of the 2020 presidential election. Eric Baradat / AFP People celebrate at Times Square in New York after Joe Biden was declared winner of the 2020 presidential election on November 7, 2020. Kena Betancur / AFP People celebrate at Times Square in New York after Joe Biden was declared winner of the 2020 presidential election on November 7, 2020. Kena Betancur / AFP Tony Roberts (C) and others celebrate the news that Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden has seemingly won the election. Joe Raedle/Getty Images/AFP People celebrate on Black Lives Matter plaza in Washington, DC on November 7, 2020, after Joe Biden was declared the winner of the 2020 presidential election. Daniel Slim / AFP People celebrate on Black Lives Matter plaza across from the White House in Washington, DC on November 7, 2020, after Joe Biden was declared the winner of the 2020 presidential election. Eric Baradat / AFP People celebrate at Times Square in New York after Joe Biden was declared winner of the 2020 presidential election on November 7, 2020. Kena Betancur / AFP