The SpaceX Crew-1 crew members NASA astronauts Shannon Walker, Victor Glover, Mike Hopkins, and JAXA astronaut Soichi Noguchi. AFP/SpaceX WASHINGTON - Four astronauts were successfully launched on the SpaceX Crew Dragon "Resilience" to the International Space Station on Sunday, the first of what the US hopes will be many routine missions following a successful test flight in late spring. Three Americans -- Michael Hopkins, Victor Glover and Shannon Walker -- and Japan's Soichi Noguchi blasted off at 7:27pm from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, thus ending almost a decade of international reliance on Russia for rides on its Soyuz rockets. READ: SpaceX ready to take four astronauts to ISS "This is a great day for the United States of America, and a great day for Japan," said NASA administrator Jim Bridenstine during a post-launch press conference. Twelve minutes after liftoff, at an altitude of 200 kilometres and a speed of 27,000 kilometres per hour, the capsule successfully separated from the second stage of the rocket. "That was one heck of a ride," said mission commander Hopkins from orbit. READ: SpaceX rocket lifts off on historic private crewed flight SpaceX confirmed that it was on the right orbit to reach the ISS a little more than 27 hours later, at around 11pm Monday night, joining two Russians and one American aboard the station, and stay for six months. There was a problem with the cabin temperature control system, but it was quickly solved. "She's operating just fine," said SpaceX president Glynne Shotwell during the press conference. But "we'll be able to breathe a sigh of relief, 26 or so hours from now, once we hand the crew over to NASA." READ: SpaceX brings NASA astronauts home safe in milestone mission SpaceX briefly transmitted live images from inside the capsule showing the astronauts in their seats, something neither the Russians nor the Americans had done before. US President-elect Joe Biden hailed the launch on Twitter as a "testament to the power of science and what we can accomplish by harnessing our innovation, ingenuity, and determination," while President Donald Trump called it "great." The Crew Dragon capsule earlier this week became the first spacecraft to be certified by NASA since the Space Shuttle nearly 40 years ago. Its launch vehicle is a reusable SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket. At the end of its missions, the Crew Dragon deploys parachutes and then splashes down in water, just as in the Apollo era. READ: NASA astronauts riding SpaceX capsule poised for weekend return SpaceX is scheduled to launch two more crewed flights for NASA in 2021, including one in the spring, and four cargo refueling missions over the next 15 months. NASA turned to SpaceX and Boeing after shuttering the checkered Space Shuttle program in 2011, which failed in its main objectives of making space travel affordable and safe.