Australia's swimmer Brenton Rickard gives a press conference ahead of the start of the swimming competition at the FINA World Championships at Palau Sant Jordi in Barcelona on July 26, 2013. AFP / Lluis Gene AUSTRALIA - Australia's swimmers could be stripped of their 4x100m medley relay bronze medals from the London 2012 Olympics after breaststroker Brenton Rickard failed a re-test of his eight-year-old doping samples, a report said Friday. Rickard, 37, described the positive test for a small amount of furosemide, a masking agent, as his "worst nightmare" in an email to his former team-mates published by the Sydney Morning Herald. "I have always abhorred doping within the sport so you can imagine how sickened and horrified I am to find myself in this predicament. This is my worst nightmare," the email was quoted as saying. READ: Postponed Tokyo Olympics to open 23 July 2021: organisers If the result is confirmed, the entire Australian relay team - Rickard, James Magnussen, Christian Sprenger, Hayden Stoeckel, Matt Targett and Tommaso D'Orsogna – would lose their medals. Australia has never lost an Olympic medal over a doping violation, the Herald said. Rickard said the case will be heard on Monday at the Court of Arbitration for Sport in Lausanne, Switzerland. READ: 'Litmus test' - Olympic host Tokyo holds international gymnastics meet  Rickard, who swam the heat in London but not the final, also won two silver medals at Beijing 2008 along with two long-course world titles, and once held the 100m breaststroke world record. The 2009 Australian athlete of the year said he believed the furosemide, a banned diuretic, came from contaminated over-the-counter medications. "Unfortunately for me though, I am not able to produce physical evidence eight years after the fact," he wrote. The report comes after Australia's Shayna Jack tested positive for a proscribed muscle-building drug in the run-up to the 2019 world championships, and was later banned by the Australian anti-doping authority.