 It's that time of the year when families look for holiday destinations for the festive season. With the coronavirus pandemic and lockdowns across the world, options this year are limited. But local is still lekker and supporting South African businesses will go a long way in rebuilding the tourism sector. Masego Rahlaga visited one of South Africa's beautiful holiday destinations. Courtesy #DStv403 HOEDSPRUIT - It's that time of the year when families look for holiday destinations for the festive season. With the coronavirus pandemic and lockdowns across the world, options this year are limited. But local is still lekker and supporting South African businesses will go a long way in rebuilding the tourism sector.
If you like to get lost in nature, perhaps try out the Kapama Private Game Reserve for a much-needed holiday getaway. READ: Limpopo tourism sector trying to entice tourists Situated in Hoedspruit, Limpopo, it's just in-between the Blyde River Valley and Kruger National Park. "Tourism as a whole is suffering in South Africa," said Christiaan Basson, the reserve's general manager. "It's really something that I think the powers that be need to consider because it's the lifeline of this area. More than 80 percent of the people employed in this area are employed in the tourism industry."
Holiday destinations, however, aren't the only part of the tourism sector that suffered. READ: Tourism association calls for COVID-19 high-risk list to be scrapped "It affected aviation massively, irrespective of which carrier you are or which airline you represent," said Cemair's national sales and marketing manager, Shaniel Singh. For Cemair it's also about grabbing opportunities as some of its competitors fight internal battles.
"The current aviation market has changed drastically in South Africa," Singh said. "I think Cemair is placed in a strong position to grow and move forward."* Masego Rahlaga visited one of South Africa's beautiful holiday destinations and filed this report.