Judge Andrew Nicol dismissed Johnny Depp's claim at the High Court in London, saying the article had been proven to be "substantially true". AFP/Tolga Akmen LONDON - Hollywood star Johnny Depp on Monday lost a libel lawsuit against British newspaper The Sun for branding him a "wife beater" in a case that laid bare his chaotic battle with drink and drugs and shattered his global reputation. Judge Andrew Nicol dismissed the 57-year-old "Pirates of the Caribbean" star's claim at the High Court in London, saying the article had been proven to be "substantially true". The Sun welcomed the ruling, as did campaigners against violence towards women, saying it had "stood up and campaigned for the victims of domestic violence for over 20 years". READ: Heard says ex-husband Depp threatened to kill her "Domestic abuse victims must never be silenced and we thank the judge for his careful consideration and thank Amber Heard for her courage in giving evidence to the court," it added. But Depp's lawyers called the judgement "as perverse as it is bewildering", arguing the court had disregarded a "mountain of counter-evidence" that "completely undermined" the claims. "The judgement is so flawed that it would be ridiculous for Mr Depp not to appeal this decision," said Jenny Afia, partner at law firm Schillings. READ: Johnny Depp denies slapping ex-wife Depp sued the tabloid's publishers News Group Newspapers Ltd (NGN) and the author of the article over claims he was violent to actress and model Heard, 34, during their volatile two-year marriage. The case was dubbed "the biggest English libel trial of the 21st century" and the legal odds had appeared to be stacked in Depp's favour. England's ancient defamation law puts the burden of proof on the media and remains one of the strictest in the Western world. READ: Johnny Depp 'non-violent', says ex Paradis in UK libel case But NGN relied on the defence of truth, arguing it had a valid basis for the 2018 story by detailing 14 alleged instances of Depp abusing Heard. The judge said he found 12 of the alleged incidents did occur. Legal experts said Depp felt he had no choice but to sue, as in the current era, accusations of domestic violence would do more damage to his career than details of his substance abuse.