File: A general view of the match ball is seen during the Super Rugby trial match between the Waratahs and the Blues at Allianz Stadium on February 7, 2014 in Sydney, Australia. LONDON - Rugby league chiefs have called an early halt to the regular Super League season, announcing an expanded play-off series after major disruption caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The regular season had been due to end on 13 November, with the table decided on the basis of points percentages. READ: SA rugby bosses want four Super Rugby teams to join PRO14 But after Friday's final two matches, four elimination play-offs involving the top six teams will determine the make-up of the Grand Final. The previous requirement for a club to complete a minimum of 15 games has been scrapped, so France's Catalans Dragons now qualify for the top six. The radical decision to increase the number of teams taking part in the play-offs from four to six keeps alive the chances of sixth-placed Hull FC reaching the November 27 Grand Final on their own ground. Wigan went top of the table after their 18-6 win over reigning champions St Helens last week and will clinch the League Leaders' Shield if they beat Huddersfield on Friday. Earlier, a statement from Hull Kingston Rovers said they could not complete their fixtures after virus testing revealed "numerous positive results within the playing bubble". Hull KR are bottom of the Super League table, with only three wins from 17 games, and had been due to play three more matches. Castleford's fixtures had already been badly disrupted after a clutch of positive tests. Super League head of commercial Rhodri Jones said: "Nothing has been predictable in this 2020 season and we hope players, supporters and the media will appreciate why we have made this change. "We believe this revised structure provides the best and fairest way to ensure the two most deserving teams reach the Grand Final." Under the new format, the top two teams will sit out the first round of the play-offs, on 12-13 November, while those finishing third to sixth in the table on win percentage will be involved in elimination matches. The winners will then face first and second in the semi-finals on 19-20 November to determine who plays in the Grand Final. Clubs have voted to return to a 12-team Super League in 2021 and French outfit Toulouse have become the first to submit an application to fill the vacancy. The competition was reduced to 11 teams following the withdrawal of Toronto in mid-season and, following the failure of the Canadian side to regain their place for 2021, clubs were given the option of sticking with 11 or reverting to 12 sides.