Don’t miss the opportunity to learn from South Africa’s most influential mentorship figures, and gain access to pivotal insights on business, personal growth and the power of inter-generational cross-platform mentorship. SPONSORED - BrandSA held a Power Mentorship Masterclass virtual conference on Thursday. The virtual conference was designed to democratise learning and growth, and provide future leaders with the opportunity to benefit from the knowledge and wisdom of business industry giants. Presented by Jonathan Boynton-Lee and facilitated by Katie Mohamed, the Masterclass featured an in-depth panel discussion spearheaded by three leaders in the business industry: Stephen Read, Ntateko Khoza and Presentha Naidoo. It is a unique opportunity to sit down with some of South Africa’s most influential mentorship figures, and gain access to the pivotal insights on business, personal growth and the power of inter-generational cross-platform mentorship. More on our panellist: Presentha Naidoo  With 10 years’ experience in the Financial and Tech Industry, Presentha is a passionate leader continuously building the case for women in STEM (what is STEM?). She heads up the Women’s Chapter Network, and dedicates much of her time to personal and skills development through her involvement in the Business Analysts Community of Practice and various other mentorship initiatives. Stephen Read  Stephen is passionate about expanding the capacity and ability of small and micro businesses. He has mentored for the Young Leaders Initiative, the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants, Black Umbrellas and others. Ntateko Khoza  CEO of Dzana Investments, Ntateko has provided leadership and management supervision to both governmental and private enterprises, focusing on property, energy, education, health and ICT. She is also the National Mentorship Movement Independent Director, spearheading the initiative’s aims to support over 1 million South Africans through mentorship. Roslyn Solomon Mobilising 100 000 mentors to support 1 million SA entrepreneurs and other across the country, The National Mentorship Movement’s ultimate objective is to create meaningful relationships between mentors and mentees with the aim of growing the economy, providing a sustainable future for South Africa. Roslyn Solomon works as a facilitator, program designer, change management consultant and leadership coach.  She has delivered several high-profile programmes aimed at advancing Emotional Intelligence, Thinking Skills, Change Resilience and Leadership Conversations. From blue chip companies developing high-powered teams to leaders seeking personal growth, she facilitates people driven change of the highest quality.   