Novak Djokovic kisses the Norman Brooks Challenge Cup trophy after winning the men's singles final match of the Australian Open tennis tournament in February. AFP/David Gray MELBOURNE - Tennis Australia flagged plans to move numerous Australian Open warm-up events to Victoria, but received a blunt warning from the state premier that he would scupper any event that risked reigniting Melbourne's COVID-19 crisis. Under the plan, tournaments originally planned for Sydney, Brisbane, Perth, Hobart, Adelaide and Canberra would all be played in Victoria before the Open at Melbourne Park from January 18-31. Tournament director Craig Tiley said the move was because COVID-19 restrictions meant that state governments could not guarantee overseas players contesting warm-ups outside Victoria would be free to travel to Melbourne for the Grand Slam. READ: Australian Open warm-up in Auckland cancelled due to virus "There is now no risk of the Australian Open going ahead without everyone (all players) in Victoria, and we didn't have that guarantee previously," he told Melbourne's Herald Sun newspaper. Tournament officials in Brisbane, Adelaide and Hobart all issued statements expressing disappointment at losing their events to Victoria and saying they would return in 2022. But Victoria Premier Dan Andrews said the plans were "not a done deal", particularly since Melbourne only recently emerged from a month-long lockdown to eliminate a second wave of COVID-19. READ: Australian Open at risk due to COVID-19, says Tiley "It's a massive event, it's an event that all of us love, but it comes at a time when the rest of the world is on fire," he told reporters. "It's an important event, absolutely, but avoiding a third wave is arguably even more important. This needs to be done on the best of public health advice." Tennis Australia seemingly jumped the gun with its announcement, with Tiley confidently predicting the Victoria state government to allow crowds of at least 25 percent capacity at Melbourne Park. READ: Aussie Open aspiring for up to half-full stadiums Adelaide International director Alistair MacDonald said the decision to move events to Victoria followed "months of extensive discussions with governments across the country". Hobart International organisers said Covid-19 restrictions made it impossible for players to prepare properly, while Brisbane tournament officials said "a Melbourne-only summer of tennis is the safest and most feasible option".