Joe Biden signalled that despite attempts by Donald Trump to stymie his transition to power he was increasingly a president in waiting. AFP/Joe Raedle WASHINGTON - President-elect Joe Biden called President Donald Trump's refusal to concede his election loss an "embarrassment" but dismissed the standoff as unimportant. "I just think it's an embarrassment, quite frankly," Biden said when asked what he thinks about Trump's refusal to acknowledge defeat in the November election. "How can I say this tactfully? I think it will not help the president's legacy," Biden told reporters in his home town of Wilmington, Delaware. A week after the US election, Trump remained shut up in the White House, pushing an alternate reality that he is about to win and filing lawsuits alleging voter fraud that so far has been backed up by only the flimsiest evidence. READ: Biden begins transition as Trump refuses to concede Biden, meanwhile, mostly ignored Trump. "The fact that they're not willing to acknowledge we won at this point is not of much consequence in our planning," Biden said. The Democrat signalled that despite attempts by Trump to stymie his transition to power he was increasingly a president in waiting. In his latest exchanges with international leaders, he talked Tuesday with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, French President Emmanuel Macron, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Ireland's prime minister, Micheal Martin. READ: Biden pledges to be president 'for all Americans' Asked what his message to them was, he said: "I'm letting them know that America is back. We're going to be back in the game. It's not America alone." Trump's attempt to hold on to power has become all-consuming for the man who often makes a point of publicly mocking rivals as "losers." "WE WILL WIN!" the Republican president tweeted early Tuesday, referring to his so far unsuccessful lawsuits. "WATCH FOR MASSIVE BALLOT COUNTING ABUSE." Since Election Day, Trump has made few public appearances and seems to have all but shelved normal presidential duties. His only known activities outside the White House have been to play golf twice over the weekend after the results came in. READ: Trump attacks US election results, Biden set to speak Washington is buzzing with speculation over who, if anyone, in Trump's inner circle will finally persuade him to go. Biden's inauguration is on 20 January.