The world is watching as millions of Americans vote for their next President. Democrat Joe Biden is taking on the incumbent Donald Trump. Trump's had an interesting term in office, and the campaign has not been short on drama. Thulasizwe Simelane talks to Krista Thomas from Howard University in Washington DC. Courtesy #DStv403  WASHINGTON - The United States started voting on Tuesday in an election amounting to a referendum on Donald Trump's uniquely brash and bruising presidency, which Democratic opponent and frontrunner Joe Biden urged Americans to end to restore "our democracy." The country is more divided and angry than at any time since the Vietnam War era of the 1970s -- and fears that Trump could dispute the result of the election are only fueling those tensions. Despite an often startlingly laid-back campaign, Biden leads in almost every opinion poll, buoyed by his consistent message that America needs to restore its "soul" and get new leadership in the midst of a coronavirus pandemic that has killed more than 231,000 people. READ: US votes on Trump's fate under threat of election turmoil "I have a feeling we're coming together for a big win tomorrow," Biden said in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, a vital electoral battleground where he was joined by pop superstar Lady Gaga. "It's time to stand up and take back our democracy." But Trump was characteristically defiant to the end, campaigning at a frenetic pace with crowded rallies in four states on Monday, and repeating his dark, unprecedented claims for a US president that the polls risk being rigged against him. While Tuesday is formally Election Day, in reality, Americans have been voting for weeks. READ: In their own words: US voters explain their election views With a huge expansion in mail-in voting to safeguard against the COVID-19 pandemic, nearly 100 million people have already made their choice. Polls opened at 6am in the eastern states of New York, New Jersey, Virginia, Connecticut and Maine. Trump himself is planning to visit his campaign headquarters in Virginia on Tuesday, while Biden will travel to his birthplace of Scranton, the scrappy Pennsylvania town where Trump also visited on Monday. There are worries that if the election is close, extended legal chaos and perhaps violent unrest could ensue -- not least because Trump has spent months trying to sap public trust in the voting process in a nation already bitterly divided along political fault lines.