Former South African President Jacob Zuma (C) leaves the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg during a break on November 16, 2020. Former president Jacob Zuma arrives at the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg, on 16 November 2020. Former South African President Jacob Zuma (C) is seen ahead of the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg on November 16, 2020. Former South African President Jacob Zuma (C) adjusts his face mask ahead of the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg on November 16, 2020. Former South African President Jacob Zuma arrives Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg, on November 16, 2020. Former South African President Jacob Zuma (C) arrives Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg, on November 16, 2020. Former South African President Jacob Zuma (C) arrives Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg, on November 16, 2020. Former South African President Jacob Zuma (L) speaks to his lawyer Muzi Sikhakhane (R) during the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg on November 16, 2020. Former South African President Jacob Zuma (C) jokes with his lawyer, Muzi Sikhakhane (R), during a break at the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg on November 16, 2020. Former South African President Jacob Zuma (C) leaves the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg during a break on November 16, 2020. Former president Jacob Zuma arrives at the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg, on 16 November 2020. Former South African President Jacob Zuma (C) is seen ahead of the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg on November 16, 2020. Former South African President Jacob Zuma (C) adjusts his face mask ahead of the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg on November 16, 2020. Former South African President Jacob Zuma arrives Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg, on November 16, 2020. Former South African President Jacob Zuma (C) arrives Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg, on November 16, 2020. Former South African President Jacob Zuma (C) arrives Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg, on November 16, 2020. Former South African President Jacob Zuma (L) speaks to his lawyer Muzi Sikhakhane (R) during the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg on November 16, 2020. Former South African President Jacob Zuma (C) jokes with his lawyer, Muzi Sikhakhane (R), during a break at the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg on November 16, 2020. Former South African President Jacob Zuma (C) leaves the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg during a break on November 16, 2020. Former president Jacob Zuma arrives at the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg, on 16 November 2020. JOHANNESBURG - Former president, Jacob Zuma appeared at the state capture inquiry on Monday. Zuma didn't say a word as his lawyer represented him. Last month, the state capture inquiry summoned Zuma to appear before the commission. WATCH: Zondo makes statement before recusal application The former president believes commission chairperson, Deputy Chief Justice Zondo is biased based on historical family relations and is asking him to recuse himself. On Monday, Zondo addressed the commission on his relationship with Zuma. He will announce his fate as chairperson of the inquiry on Tuesday following a recusal application brought by Zuma's legal team which took the whole day to deliberate on.