File: Rescuers pull a rubber boat carrying residents through a flooded street after Typhoon Vamco hit in Marikina City, suburban Manila on November 12, 2020. Ted ALJIBE / AFP HANOI - Storm Vamco barrelled into Vietnam on Sunday, damaging buildings and injuring at least five people after wreaking devastation in the Philippines. The storm made landfall on Sunday morning with winds of up to 90 kilometers per hour (56 mph), according to media reports, uprooting trees and blowing the roofs off houses and schools. READ: Thousands flee as Typhoon Vamco nears Vietnam Vamco is the latest in a series of storms that have pummelled Vietman over the past six weeks causing flooding and landslides that have killed at least 159 people and left 70 others missing. Initial reports from the Disaster Management Authority on Sunday said that five people were injured while they were trying to secure their houses. Vamco has weakened since hitting the Philippines as a typhoon with winds of up to 155 kph, but state media said it had still caused significant damage, though details were not immediately available. READ: By the numbers: Japan's Typhoon Hagibis compared to killer 1958 storm Authorities evacuated nearly 650,000 people from seven coastal provinces to higher and safer ground before the storm hit to try to reduce casualties. Agriculture and Rural Development Minister Nguyen Xuan Cuong told the VNExpress news website he hoped the precautions would minimise the storm's impact. Vamco caused severe damage in the Philippines, causing flooding that affected more than 340,000 people. Philippine authorities said Sunday the death toll had risen to 67, though floodwaters are now receding, giving hope that the worst could be over. READ: Nearly 60 bridges, 2,000 houses wrecked by typhoon in North Korea In Vietnam, weeks of severe weather have damaged or destroyed more than 400,000 homes, according to the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. Roads and bridges have been washed away, power supplies disrupted, and crucial food crops destroyed, leaving at least 150,000 people at immediate risk of food shortages.