US President Donald Trump has several times prematurely named himself the winner, refusing to accept the data showing Joe Biden headed for victory. AFP/Brendan Smialowski WASHINGTON - President Donald Trump, in his latest effort to discredit vote tallies showing him headed for defeat in the tense US election, warned challenger Joe Biden on Friday against "wrongfully" claiming the presidency. Three days after the US election in which there was a record turnout of 160 million voters, a winner had yet to be declared. However, incomplete returns from key states showed Biden almost certain to make Trump a one-term president. The Democrat was ahead in Arizona, Nevada and even Georgia, a historically Republican state where Biden was so close to victory that authorities announced a recount. READ: Trump campaign says 'this election is not over' In the big prize of Pennsylvania, Biden's lead inexorably grew as final batches of ballots were added up. By late Friday he had an advantage of almost 20,000 votes over Trump, although that was still within the narrow margin that would likely require a recount. Should Biden be confirmed to have won Pennsylvania, he will automatically cross the threshold for winning the presidency. Biden was set to give an address in his hometown of Wilmington, sparking speculation that he planned to declare victory. But with US television networks holding off from naming him the formal winner, he might change his plans to something more modest. READ: Biden takes lead in Pennsylvania Trump has several times prematurely named himself the winner, refusing to accept the data showing Biden headed for victory. In his latest broadside, he warned on Twitter that "Joe Biden should not wrongfully claim the office of the President. I could make that claim also." Trump's campaign has filed lawsuits around the country alleging fraud, but no evidence has been produced to back up supposed incidents of ballot tampering or other significant incidents. READ: Biden gets more security as he edges toward win: report If Biden's victory is confirmed, the former senator from Delaware would be sworn in on 20 January 2021 as the 46th president of the United States. Amid growing concerns about the potential for unrest if Trump refuses to concede, attention was focused on the reaction of his Republican Party.