 SPONSORED: White River Manor is an executive dependency and wellness centre that is located in the quaint town of White River on a picturesque five star lodge. Nestled alongside the White River and set in a 100-year-old garden, it is the perfect setting for a time of personal reflection. White River Manor offers personal attention and individual care to the discerning clients in need of specialised dependency and substance abuse treatment. At White River Manor we endeavour to restore balance between life and the stress of the professional working environment. This luxury recovery and wellness destination provides the latest therapeutic techniques to clients, with the perfect opportunity to achieve the life of fulfilment and freedom that they deserve. The professional multi-disciplinary team and caring staff have one goal in mind: to assist in restoring balance to mind, body and soul. The state of the world at the moment is causing increased anxiety and concerns, not only for executive professionals, but for anyone who feels the demands from their high-impact lifestyles, who may experience increased burn-out resulting in physical and emotional fatigue exacerbated by the continual pressures of life. This can have a major impact on general health and wellness, which are enhanced by dependency related conditions and behaviours. The multi-professional, world-class team at White River Manor has decades of experience and vast knowledge in the fields of restoration, dependency and dual diagnosis. White River Manor offers a thorough assessment and tailored, individual treatment plans, designed to meet specific needs and therapeutic requirements. The treatment plans support a wide range of emotional, physical and psychological issues, including dependency, depression, anxiety burn out and trauma. Combining intensive therapy, medical management, psychiatric evaluation, exercise options, healthy eating and nutrition – our approach ensures deep transformational healing and full recovery. Clients will also learn new practices, gaining valuable tools to help you deal with life’s challenges after treatment, to sustain long-term recovery. The holistic approach is what makes White River Manor so unique in terms of how each client is treated. With a maximum of 20 clients at any given time, is allows the team the ability to focus on providing the highest level of care via a multitude of different therapeutic techniques. The team at White River Manor understand that one size does not fit all and with that we aim to find the specific model of treatment that works for each clients’ specific set of needs. The therapeutic options that are available to clients at White River Manor comprise of the following: Dialectical Behaviour Therapy Cognitive Behaviour Therapy Mindfulness Therapy Trauma-Specific Therapy Spontaneous Healing Intra-systemic Process Solution-Focused Therapy Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) Therapy Music And Art Therapy Adult-Child Therapy Introduction To 12 Step Program Pastoral/ Spiritual Counselling Didactic Group Therapy The breath-taking surroundings provide an ideal, restorative environment for each clients’ recovery journey. On top of the intensive therapeutic process White River Manor also offer a variety of luxury amenities, excursions and activities for our clients to enjoy. Finding new joys in life is an integral part of sustainable recovery. Luxury Spa White River Manor firmly believes that life is meant to be enjoyed and that happiness should form part of each day regardless of circumstances - With a fully functional spa room, we allow our clients the opportunity to embrace the self-love they desire in the form of full body massages, facials, manicures, pedicures and more. Fully Equipped Gym Clients are offered a combination of both mental health and physical wellbeing. The  facility is equipped with a full service gym and optional personal trainer should you wish to focus on regaining strength and increased cardio vascular capabilities. Luxury Accommodation White river Manor endeavours to exceed 5-star expectations, combining classic décor with absolute comfort. Our passion is to provide quality in every area of service, to ensure complete ease of mind. There is a wide range of options, from the elegant standard private rooms to the luxurious Presidential Manor Suite. Excursions and Activities At White River Manor balance is key to life. Clients are offered some exciting, fun and adventurous activities in this beautiful part of the world. It’s a break from the intensive therapeutic process that the clients are engaged in. With excursions to the world famous Kruger National Park, Panoramic Tour of Graskop and God's Window, quad biking, water rafting, helicopter tours and many more exciting activities ensure that each clients programme at White River Manor is a life changing experience. There is no better time than now to seek the help that you need to overcome the challenges and obstacles that are present in modern day life. At White River Manor we will offer you the experience of a lifetime that will reset, restore and refocus your mind, body and soul to ensure joy in life for a long time to come. Website: www.whiterivermanor.com Email: bookings@whiterivermanor.com Contact us on: +27827315939 View our affordable rehab option at: https://www.whiteriverrecovery.co.za/