Consumers can now eat, drink, and be merry as the ban on the sale of alcohol has been lifted on Monday. Liquor traders and consumers in Durban have welcomed the move. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Consumers can now eat, drink and be merry as the ban on the sale of alcohol has been lifted on Monday. Liquor traders and consumers in Durban have welcomed the move. But sales must take place under strict conditions, including social distancing, people wearing masks and the regular sanitising of all outlets. Level 3: Consumers urged not to panic buy alcohol Liquor traders say the lockdown has suffocated their businesses. “We’ve been waiting for a very long time. If there is no work, there is no income. We need to pay school fees and everything. With alcohol sales now allowed, we are happy," said liquor trader, Simphiwe Dotshe. But some are not happy at all. They say the ban on the sale of cigarettes, rather than alcohol should have been lifted. READ: Liquor Trader Association says taverns can sell alcohol safely “They should lift it. The Government is totally wrong on what they’ve done. Because now, look at the people. They will get drunk, they will walk around, and they will not wear the face masks. "They’re going to roam the streets like the lockdown is finished. So, what’s the point of carrying on with the lockdown?" asked Durban resident Brian Rindel. KwaZulu-Natal's liquor authority has promised to monitor compliance with the strict lockdown regulations. Should these be violated, the authority says it will recommend the guilty party's trading licence be suspended for three months or until the end of the lockdown. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.