Candy's Revue Bar is a gentlemen's club situated in Port Elizabeth. PORT ELIZABETH - "Drive Thru Eye Candy" reads a blackboard written with white and pink chalk outside a strip club in an affluent suburb of Port Elizabeth, South Africa. Two strippers wearing red T-shirts and black thongs stand along the busy street waving at passing motorists, holding up signs marked "Enter Here Strip-Thru" in bright red lettering. Round the back, scantily clad dancers wearing face masks perform as clients watch from their cars after paying around R300. After less than 10 minutes, each punter must drive on. READ: Sex workers sharing food to survive during virus pandemic Since South Africa imposed harsh lockdown restrictions to fight the coronavirus pandemic, the sex industry has been among the hardest-hit sectors. With the easing of the restrictions, Candy's Revue Bar was allowed to resume operations early this month, but was still unable to offer indoor entertainment - hence the novel drive-through strip show. One of the dancers, who called herself Scarlett, was relieved to be back at work and " do what we enjoy to do, and also entertain the people that missed us". READ: Sex workers hardest hit by SA lockdown: SWEAT "We all got to get used to this new way of social distancing, you know with the masks, but it is what it is, and we all work... You can always do your job somehow," she said. Proprietor Charl Muller said it was not easy continuing to pay the dancers during the club's two-month shutdown. "Sometimes you have to just be creative and make some income where you can," he said. People can report employees who they suspect of fraud by calling the UIF's calls entre on 080003007 To check if your employer has been paid, visit the UIF-COVID-19 Temporary Employee/Employers Relief Scheme here - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.