Absa Rewards is a rewards programme that rewards you for banking with Absa. It does so by putting back real cash in your pocket. PARTNER CONTENT - Absa Rewards gives back real cash to Absa customers and since February 2020, the programme is now giving back even more real cash on customers’ everyday purchases. Absa Rewards is a rewards programme that rewards you for banking with Absa. It does so by putting back real cash in your pocket. In addition to the real cash benefits, customers can enjoy discounts, special offers and exclusive deals from select Absa Rewards partners. In February 2020, exciting changes were made to the programme, which included up to 30% back in real cash on grocery and fuel spend at selected partners. The programme’s design was also adjusted to promote deeper, stronger engagement with customers. The continuous enhancement of the programme has seen the introduction of a new partnership with Dis-Chem, which came into effect on 1 May 2020. Customers can now earn back up to 30% in real cash on their qualifying health and beauty products online or in store at Dis-Chem; a crucial benefit in these times of heightened health and hygiene awareness. All Rewards members can enjoy up to 30% back in real cash on their grocery spend when they choose to shop online or in store – offering even more ways to get real cash back when we all need it most. The grocery partners include: Food Lover's Market, Pick n Pay and Woolworths. On top of this, customers will still earn Cash Rewards from Absa (also referred to as Bank Earn) on grocery spend at other grocery retailers. An additional benefit to Absa Rewards members is up to 30% back in cash when you fill up or shop at Sasol. Everything you need to know about joining Absa Rewards Earning Cash Rewards You earn Cash Rewards on qualifying transactions when you pay with your Absa Debit, Credit or Cheque Card for online or in-store purchases. Quick ways to help you earn back more real cash Some tips and tricks Want to join Absa Rewards? Joining Absa Rewards is simple! If you are a South African citizen or resident and have an Absa Cheque Account or Credit Card, visit www.absa.co.za/rewards and click Join now to start earning back real cash on everyday purchases.