File: American music legend Bob Dylan (C) performs on stage during his concert in Shanghai on April 8, 2011. NEW YORK - Legendary US folk singer Bob Dylan releases his first album of original songs in eight years with the ten-track Rough and Rowdy Ways. Dylan's 39th studio album features a 17-minute ballad about the assassination of John F Kennedy, as well as a tribute to American electric bluesman Jimmy Reed. Rough and Rowdy Ways is the Nobel winner's first collection of new material since "Tempest" in 2012, although he has released a number of cover albums in the interim. It sees Dylan mix bluesy riffs with folksy storytelling, his signature raspy voice delivering lyrics that switch between bleakly haunting and darkly humorous. The songs run through 20th century pop culture, touch on myths and refer to historical and fictional figures -- some light, others tragic. In I Contain Multitudes, Dylan cites Indiana Jones, Anne Frank and the Rolling Stones in the same verse. Murder Most Foul, first revealed in March, retells the shooting of President Kennedy in Dallas, Texas while describing the evolution of 1960s counterculture. The song, which rose to the top of the Billboard chart, is packed with artist name-drops including the Eagles, Charlie Parker, Stevie Nicks, Woodstock and The Beatles. Dylan -- some of whose most-loved songs from the 1960s and 70s addressed police brutality and racism, such as Hurricane -- also mentions the Tulsa race massacre of 1921. The Birdman of Alcatraz, one of America's most notorious serial killers, gets a mention, too. In False Prophet, the album's six-minute second track, Dylan sounds cocky and unapologetic as he addresses his own mythology. Despite his ageing years, Dylan, awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom from Barack Obama in 2012, has toured almost non-stop for the past three decades. The coronavirus crisis forced him to cancel a string of dates in Japan and North America this spring and summer, but he has promised to be back on the road as soon as it's safe to do so.