File: Solidarity is threatening Ministers Lindiwe Zulu and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma with legal action over private and independent nursery schools. JOHANNESBURG - Multiple court cases could be on the horizon for the government regarding lockdown regulations. Issues surrounding the reopening of schools have raised questions for the government from multiple non-governmental organisations. Solidarity is threatening Ministers Lindiwe Zulu and Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma with legal action over private and independent nursery schools. READ: Madonsela says ruling on lockdown regulations not clear The organisation wants private nursery schools to be allowed to open on 6 July. Solidarity’s Professional Guild for Social Workers and its Schools Support Centre wrote a letter to the ministers demanding clarity on how the regulations will apply to private schools. In the letter, they threatened legal action if there was no response. READ: Level 3 and Level 4 regulations declared unconstitutional Private early childhood development centres fall under Social Development and not Basic Education which the union says means they are excluded from basic education's phasing-in approach. They now want clarity from Social Development and Cooperative Governance. Meanwhile, the Department of Basic Education is facing possible court cases of its own. READ: 90% of schools will be ready to reopen next week: DoE Section 27, Equal Education and Limpopo School Governing Bodies have threatened to take legal action if the National School Nutrition Programme is not reinstated for all pupils. The Basic Education Department promised to resume the programme for all children from 1 June, including those not yet returning to school. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.