US President Donald Trump holds a Bible while visiting St. John's Church across from the White House after the area was cleared of people protesting the death of George Floyd. WASHINGTON - American religious leaders castigated US President Donald Trump for posing in front of a church holding a Bible after peaceful protesters were violently cleared from the surrounding area. "It was traumatic and deeply offensive, in the sense that something sacred was being misused for a political gesture," Washington's Episcopal Bishop Mariann Budde said on public radio station NPR. The Republican billionaire, whose supporters include many evangelical Christians, used "the symbolic power of our sacred text, holding it in his hand as if it was a vindication of his positions and his authority," she said. READ: Autopsy finds George Floyd's death was homicide The historic St John's Episcopal church is across the street from Lafayette Park, which faces the White House and has been the epicentre of the protests in Washington since Friday. The church was defaced with graffiti and damaged in a fire during a demonstration on Sunday night. On Monday protesters were demonstrating there peacefully when law enforcement including military police used tear gas to disperse them -- clearing a path for the president to walk from the White House to the church for the photographs. READ: US cities under curfew after fresh anti-race protests, looting The protest was televised, and the backlash as the images spread was swift and furious. "The protest at that point was entirely peaceful," Budde said. "There was absolutely no justification for this." Hundreds of thousands of people have been demonstrating their anger since the May 25 death of George Floyd, a 46-year-old African-American man killed by police in Minneapolis. READ: Twitter flags Trump tweet on Minneapolis as 'glorifying violence' Other Episcopalian leaders denounced Trump's visit to the church as "disgraceful and morally repugnant." "Simply by holding aloft an unopened Bible he presumed to claim Christian endorsement and imply that of The Episcopal Church," bishops from New England said in a statement.