Staff members at a Cape Town school are asking for the school to close and be deep cleaned after the principal came to school knowing he'd been exposed to COVID-19. Courtesy of #DStv403 CAPE TOWN - Some parents and teachers at a Cape Town school are demanding it be decontaminated after the principal tested positive for COVID-19. They say he was at school last week, knowing he had been in contact with an infected person. He has since gone into self-isolation. READ: COVID-19: Cosas threatens to shutdown schools Some of the teachers on Wednesday said they didn’t want to go into the classrooms until the Western Cape Education Department has spoken to them. A lawyer representing some of the teachers says because the principal was still at work as recently as last week, the premises should be decontaminated. “They say please we're willing to work, but don't expose us, because if you're exposing us we're taking it back to our families," said lawyer Elton Hart. READ: Western Cape COVID-19 affected schools gagged "Our families can get sick, we can get sick, we can't come to school and then it derails our whole planning to actually make sure our matriculants graduate. We need to be proactive and not reactive." The WCED says it’s aware of the case, and the circuit manager will be visiting the school. It says the principal was only in certain cordoned-off areas and that the whole school doesn’t need to be decontaminated. READ: COVID-19: Calls to shut down 12 KZN schools Meanwhile, some teachers at a school in Kraaifontein are also complaining about a lack of action after several staff members tested positive for the virus. They’re also calling for a temporary closure so the school can be deep-cleaned. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.