File: KZN premier Sihle Zikalala described Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini as a symbol of provincial unity. DURBAN - KwaZulu-Natal premier Sihle Zikalala says a big chunk of the provincial budget has had to be redirected to the COVID-19 response. He presented the over R800-million budget for the 2020/21 financial year. Zikalala also announced an increased allocation for the AmaZulu Royal Household from over R66-million to R71-million, describing the Zulu King as a symbol of provincial unity. WATCH: KZN Legislature virtual budget sitting 2020 “About R71-million has been allocated for the support to the royal household for this financial year," Zikalala said. "We'll also be focusing on Zulu royal household trust to ensure that it is capacitated to a point where it can regenerate revenue so that it supports funding of a royal household.”  In response, the Democratic Alliance called for greater transparency around allocations to the royal household. READ: Land reform: EC House of Traditional Leaders back AmaZulu King “We expect the premier to be transparent about the affairs of his Majesty because every year there is controversy around the budget of his majesty," said the DA KZN leader Zwakele Mncwango. "We do understand that the King doesn't really sign expenditure or authorise any expenditure, however we believe that there's no accountability at all.” The Inkatha Freedom Party, on the other hand, says His Majesty should be allowed to use his budget towards spreading awareness. READ: IFP wants more money allocated to Zulu royal family “Our view as the IFP, the allocation for activities that were earmarked for His Majesty the King must be redirected and allow His Majesty the King and the traditional leaders to engage on awareness activities, mobilising people about coronavirus," said IFP president Velenkosini Hlabisa. "We are still going to stay with COVID-19 for some months before we get the vaccine.” WATCH: KZN welcomes Cuban doctors Since the province reported the first case of COVID-19, Zikalala and his team have been hard at work. The provincial government redirected the focus towards the fight against COVID-19. “This means that from the existing baselines, KZN has had to reprioritise its budget to fund the required programmes to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic,” Zikalala said. Both the IFP and the Democratic Alliance welcomed the budget.