File: Gerry (L) and Kate McCann pose with boards of their missing daughter Madeleine reading "don't give me up" as they leave the Tribunal Civil de Lisboa in Lisbon on February 10, 2010. BRUSSELS - Belgium on Thursday reopened an investigation into the 1996 murder of a German teenager because of a possible link with the man suspected of murdering British girl Madeleine McCann. Carola Titze, 16, was found dead with her body mutilated in July 1996 in the resort town of De Haan on the Belgian coast. The public prosecutor's office in Bruges "is indeed reopening the file relating to this murder", a spokesman told AFP, without giving further details. READ: German police identify 'murder' suspect in Madeleine McCann case At the time, Titze was on holiday with her parents and the investigation turned to a German suspect in his early 20s. Candles light a photograph of Madeleine McCann inside the church of Praia da Luz, near Lagos, on May 3, 2017, during a mass ceremony marking the 10th anniversairy of her disappearance. Madeleine McCann (Maddie) disappeared in Praia da Luz on May 3, 2007. The man had bragged to her about his criminal past, according to the Belgian media, but he was never found. Following the identification of the German suspect in the "Maddie" case, Paul Gevaert, the now retired investigator in charge of the Titze case, said there was "certainly a connection to be made". The suspect, named as Christian B. by German media, has a history of previous sex offences, including child abuse and rape. "The description (of Christian B., now 43) fits," Gevaert told Belgian newspaper De Standaard. His investigation was closed unsolved in 2016. READ: Portugal service for Madeleine McCann 10 years on McCann went missing from her family's holiday apartment in Portugal on May 3, 2007, a few days before her fourth birthday, as her parents dined with friends at a nearby tapas bar. Her disappearance sparked one of the biggest searches of its kind in recent years. German police last week raised hopes that the case could finally be solved when they revealed they were investigating the new suspect. Currently held at Kiel prison in the north of Germany, the suspect is serving a jail term for drug trafficking. The man has refused to speak about the Maddie case, one of his lawyers told German television on Thursday.