Government is targetting churches with its strict lockdown regulations and plans on blaming religious institutions for spreading coronavirus. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Pastor Paseka 'Mboro' Motsoeneng says government is targetting churches with its strict lockdown regulations and plans on blaming religious institutions for spreading coronavirus. Motsoeneng's Katlehong Incredible Happenings Church reopened on Sunday and he delivered a sermon to 50 people while wearing a face shield. Mboro's described other churches that have refused to open as cowards. On Sunday, he began his service by asking those over the age of 60 to leave the service as they are most at risk of contracting COVID-19. His sermon included an endorsement of the use of herbal remedies to keep healthy. “God said in His words I gave you herbs for Healing. It is not wrong to use herbs as a child of God,” he said. READ: Anglicans won't open churches yet Mboro says it was good to be back in church, but he believes government’s focus on religious institutions is unfair. “These people where they’ve been in the past 14 days and 7 days, in the malls, pick n pay, Shoprite Checkers, they don’t have data for that. So the data they have is from the church. So they’re going to pin the whole thing on the church. So it looks like it could be sabotage. They will say we’ve found a collection of this, it is the church,” he said. Mboro has a message for churches that are remaining closed during level three of the lockdown. “It’s being a coward to say, ‘I’m a pastor I’m not going to open.’ If you’re not going to open for many people, open for yourself and few and just pray. People must be taught how to protect themselves, we are doing that,” Mboro said. WATCH: Churches want compensation for lost offerings Pastor Mboro is adhering to the strict regulations on how churches should reopen, but he's not happy about it. He believes government is targeting churches and says this is a sign of the coming rapture. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8 am to 4 pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs. Some places of worship have opened. Courtesy #DStv403