Nexmed Healthcare Solutions was founded in 2019 with the primary objective of creating a healthier world through innovative solutions spanning the full healthcare eco-system. SPONSORED: Who is Nexmed Healthcare Solutions? Nexmed Healthcare Solutions is a South African born medtech company focusing on 4IR enabled healthcare solutions for the improvement and advancement of patient care and clinical outcomes. Nexmed Healthcare Solutions was founded in 2019 with the primary objective of creating a healthier world through innovative solutions spanning the full healthcare eco-system. We provide disruptive innovation and technologies to our customers, empowering them to offer enhanced patient treatment and ultimately change the face of healthcare. Our motto is “caring through innovation” which speaks of a vested interest at every level of the organization to constantly pioneer, enhance and co-create improved technologies that demonstrate our personal care for every life that we encounter. Disruptive Innovation in Healthcare: The UV-D Robot Nexmed Healthcare Solutions is responsible for bringing the world’s first fully autonomous UV-C Robot to Africa for the first time. Prior to the launch of the UV-D Robot in Africa in September 2019, there had never been an autonomous UV-C device capable of disinfecting an area up to 99.999% in Africa. The UV-D Robot is manufactured by UV-D Robot’s in Denmark, a world leader in robotic innovation and the subsidiary company to Blue Ocean Robotics.  Blue Ocean Robotics have won a multitude of awards based on the UV-D Robot’s ability to effectively destroy pathogens with clinical validation. According to the World Health Organization patients with infections caused by drug-resistant bacteria are at increased risk of worse clinical outcomes and death. We take a look at 3 "superbugs" and how the UV-D Robot becomes a formidable force in this fight. Resistance in Klebsiella pneumoniae has spread to all regions of the world. K. pneumoniae is a major cause of hospital-acquired infections such as pneumonia, bloodstream infections, infections in new-borns and intensive-care unit patients.  Resistance in E. coli is very widespread. There are countries in many parts of the world where this treatment is now ineffective in more than half of patients. Resistance to first-line drugs to treat infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus - a common cause of severe infections in health facilities and the community - is widespread. People with MRSA are estimated to be 64% more likely to die than people with a non-resistant form of the infection. “The UV-D Robot has been clinically validated to destroy these superbugs to near untraceable amounts in mere minutes. The key to this fight is prevention. Prevention saves lives,” says Jonathan Burger, CEO of Nexmed Healthcare Solutions. The GoBe Telepresence Robot Nexmed Healthcare Solutions will be responsible for bringing the world’s most advanced “robotic” telepresence device to Africa in just 16 days. The much anticipated GoBe Robot is due to launch in Europe in just under 3 weeks. It is important to make the distinction between a “robotic” telepresence device and a “remote controlled” telepresence device. The NEW GoBe telepresence robot will be fully robotic and boast an array of completely autonomous smart functions. “Coupled with it’s best-in-class technology, the GoBe Robot will be an asset to the advancement of the telehealth agenda in Africa” says Burger. In recent years, telemedicine adoption has been incremental, however with the Coronavirus pandemic we have seen an international surge in its adoption because of the need to divert in-patient care to remote care. The GoBe telepresence robot will allow for a multitude of functions such as: Materialise OrthoView Pre-surgical Planning Software The latest product to be provided by Nexmed Healthcare Solutions is brought by a strategic partnership with a global leader in 3D printing and software, namely Materialise. OrthoView is an Orthopedic Pre-operative Planning and Templating software which allows surgeons to automate the analysis and planning of orthopaedic procedures. From joint replacement and trauma to spine and paediatrics, the patented OrthoView software is complete with smart planning tools. Prior to the launch of OrthoView, general pre-operative orthopaedic planning would be done manually with a lot of decision-making taking place in the operating room. With OrthoView this is now done prior to entering the operating room. This allows the surgeon to create and print a digital plan of the upcoming surgery, utilizing the patient’s DICOM data. This plan can be shared with assisting surgeons, prosthesis providers and even the patient. Orthoview creates greater certainty prior to surgery, whilst reducing time spent in surgery and at the same time assists in better prosthesis fit and enhanced patient outcomes.  “We are very excited about the launch of the OrthoView software in South Africa as it is a leap in the right direction in terms of digital transformation in surgery”, says Burger. “As it states in our company ethos: We provide disruptive innovation and technologies to our customers, empowering them to offer enhanced patient treatment and ultimately change the face of healthcare. This is why we exist, says Burger, to constantly pioneer, enhance and co-create improved technologies that demonstrate our personal care for every life that we encounter.”