Ramaphosa Q&A JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa says the lockdown, although one of the hardest in the world, helped flatten the curve significantly. Ramaphosa defended the lockdown at a hybrid sitting of Parliament. MPs grilled Ramaphosa on some of the regulations and bans and questioned whether they have been effective. Nearly 1,700 people have died of COVID-19 and over 80,000 people have been infected. WATCH: President Ramaphosa updates SA on COVID-19 regulations Ramaphosa said a delay or early easing of the lockdown would have been catastrophic. The economy dominated the discussion, with MPs raising questions on how the economy will cope with the effects of the pandemic. Ramaphosa spoke specifically on the importance of the informal sector, saying it accounts for 18 percent of the country's economy. The president said a fund will be set up to assist SMMEs. READ: More sectors will be allowed to resume: Ramaphosa Ramaphosa reiterated the balance that must be drawn between saving the economy and saving lives. He said the balance is a very delicate one and saving the economy must not come at the expense of human lives. Ramaphosa also stated that Finance Minister Tito Mboweni would soon table an emergency budget to address the economic cost of the pandemic. Opposition parties criticised the regulations on a number of diverging points. The Democratic Alliance accused the president of not being transparent about the science behind the lockdown. DA interim-leader John Steenhuisen described the lockdown as one of the most brutal in the world and said the reopening of the economy has been delayed by too long. READ: Economy expected to pick up in activity Steenhuisen also questioned Ramaphosa on ANC members who have been arrested for corruption regarding the distribution of food parcels. The president stated he would answer that question at a later date as the information is being compiled. READ: Emergency budget to be tabled on 24 June Ramaphosa affirmed the government's commitment to empowering Chapter 9 institutions, "we will continue to [financially empower them] so that we are able to get to the bottom of any misdemeanours that may arise out of COVID-19." The EFF rejected the easing of the lockdown regulations, citing the rise in COVID-19 cases and the country's weak health infrastructure as reasons for continuing with stricter regulations. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.