Media briefing on COVID-19 GENEVA - Six months since the new coronavirus outbreak, the pandemic is still far from over, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Monday, warning that "the worst is yet to come". Reaching the half-year milestone just as the death toll surpassed 500,000 and the number of confirmed infections topped 10 million, the WHO said it was a moment to recommit to the fight to save lives. "Six months ago, none of us could have imagined how our world -- and our lives -- would be thrown into turmoil by this new virus," WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a virtual briefing. READ: SA reports 6,334 new COVID-19 cases in one day "We all want this to be over. We all want to get on with our lives. But the hard reality is this is not even close to being over. "Although many countries have made some progress, globally the pandemic is actually speeding up. "We're all in this together, and we're all in this for the long haul. READ: All African countries have coronavirus testing capacity: WHO chief "We will need even greater stores of resilience, patience, humility and generosity in the months ahead. "We have already lost so much -- but we cannot lose hope." Tedros also said that the pandemic had brought out the best and worst humanity, citing acts of kindness and solidarity, but also misinformation and the politicisation of the virus. READ: COVID-19: SAMA warns of bleak state of health facilities In an atmosphere of global political division and fractures on a national level, "the worst is yet to come. I'm sorry to say that," he said. "With this kind of environment and condition, we fear the worst." - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.