Formula One said it hoped to have between 15 and 18 races in total, with the season being completed in December. PARIS - The curtailed Formula One season will start with two races behind closed doors in Austria on July 5 and July 12 followed by six other grands prix in Europe, the organisers said. Formula One said it hoped to have between 15 and 18 races in total, with the season being completed in December. The F1 season was thrown into chaos with the cancellation of the traditional curtain-raising Australian Grand Prix in March only hours before practice was due to begin as the coronavirus pandemic spread across the world. READ: Dutch Formula 1 GP postponed until next year Last week, the Austrian government sanctioned the season-opening double-header at the Spielberg circuit after F1 organisers "presented a complete and professional plan" to combat the COVID-19 outbreak. The Hungarian Grand Prix will be brought forward to July 19 before a two-week break, followed by consecutive races in Britain and events in Spain, Italy and Belgium. All will likely be run without spectators while participants must adhere to strict safety protocols. Regular health tests will be conducted with the number of team members and race staff at the venue also reduced. READ: Britain's Silverstone 'to stage two grands prix' "While we currently expect the season to commence without fans at our races we hope that over the coming months the situation will allow us to welcome them back once it is safe to do," said F1 chief executive Chase Carey. "But we know the return of Formula 1 will be a welcome boost to sports fans around the world." F1 managing director Ross Brawn last month said the Red Bull Ring circuit's remote location made it a "logical" choice to stage the season's first two races. READ: Formula One shutdown period extended to five weeks Silverstone will host two races in Britain on August 2 and 9, with the Spanish Grand Prix set for Barcelona on August 16. The Belgian and Italian Grands Prix will take place on their original dates of August 30 and September 6, completing the European part of the season. Each event will also include the Formula 2 and Formula 3 categories. The blueprint for the rehashed season features further races in Asia and the Americas in September, October and November before finishing in the Gulf in Bahrain and Abu Dhabi in December.