Natu president Allen Thompson said its figures show more than a thousand schools in the province that are still not fit to teach. Courtesy of #DStv403 DURBAN - The National Teachers Union (Natu) said many more schools in KwaZulu-Natal are not ready to open than the 104 announced by provincial Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu. Natu president Allen Thompson said its figures show more than a thousand schools in the province that are still not fit to teach. WATCH: Not all teachers ready for reopening of schools "Our report is saying more than 1,000 schools in the province of KwaZulu-Natal are not ready, more than 400 schools in the province of Mpumalanga are also not ready. "In districts like Capricorn District in Limpopo, all schools have not received PPEs but the department is disputing that," Thompson said. The union leader urged teachers not to enter the premises of schools who are not prepared to receive students. After over two months of no classes, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga has given the green light for grades 7 and 12 pupils to return to school on Monday. President of National Professional Teachers' Organisation of South Africa, Basil Manuel commented on school readiness. Courtesy of #DStv403 President of National Professional Teachers' Organisation of South Africa, Basil Manuel, said there have been concerns raised by teachers but there is a sense of relief that the process has begun. Manuel said if schools are not completely ready they should not accept learners or teachers. READ: Lockdown Level 3: Schools open after delay He urged principals to not be overzealous and put their pupils at risk. Manuel said plans should be instituted for schools that are not ready for teaching and learning to join the majority as soon as possible. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.