Tourism Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane says you'll be able to go to restaurants from Monday but there will be strict rules in place to avoid spreading COVID-19. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - There will be no buffets when restaurants reopen on Monday. Tourism Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane says menus should ideally be replaced with non-touch options. Restaurants have been closed for months under lockdown, with only some offering takeaways more recently. READ: Restaurants demand clarity over sit-down services Kubayi-Ngubane briefed the media on the amended COVID-19 regulations in the tourism industry. The minister said her department is working hard to restore the tourism sector but emphasised employees and tourists' lives must be protected. Some of the safety measures include restaurants keeping a daily record of patrons and delivery agents. READ: Tourism sector urged to use winter season to gear up Service providers will be able to refuse entry to patrons who are not wearing masks. Strict sanitising and social distancing protocols are planned to be implemented. Conference and meeting venues are not allowed to host more than 50 guests at a time. LIST: Tourism services permitted, prohibited under level 3 Conference and meetings must also delegate specific seating for guests, as well as provide individual water bottles and condiments. Kubayi-Ngubane said casinos must limit the entry of patrons to 50 percent capacity based on available space of gambling floor. Some amendments remain unchanged. Hotels, BnBs and leisure travel are all subject to the same regulations. READ: SA lockdown: Casinos ready to reopen Kubayi-Ngubane stated leisure activities are still not allowed, visits to friends and family are still prohibited. Self-drives are however allowed within the province. Hotels are not allowed to provide accommodation for leisure activities. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs. Tsogo Sun Gaming CEO, Chris du Toit comments on the amended tourism regulations announced on Friday. Courtesy of #DStv403 