With the economy slowly reopening under lockdown Level 3, what does this mean for the public transport sector? Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - With the economy slowly reopening under lockdown Level 3, what does this mean for the public transport sector? - Taxis - Minibuses are allowed to be on the road at any time under Level 3. But the reality for many drivers is that -- because they still can’t load more than 70 percent -- making a living is difficult. WATCH: Mbalula outlines public transport measures under level 3 “They said we must load 10 people in the car, still there’s no profit. We’re losing," said taxi driver Wandile Cebekhulu. "We can ask our taxi owners, they’re not getting any help from the government.” - Trains - Meanwhile, hitching a train ride outside Gauteng remains practically impossible right now. Government feels Metrorail just isn’t ready to get rolling again. The new date to resume the service is 1 July. READ: Gautrain extends operating hours as country moves to Level 3 The Gautrain, though, has extended its operating times but the airport route remains suspended for now. - Planes - Safair says its planes will be back in the sky for business travel from 15 June. “Airlink as well, SAA as well, Comair will stay on the ground until November," said aviation expert Guy Leitch. READ: Administrators deny SAA set to resume flying "And Mango, the last I heard, was that they’re going to be polling their travellers." Leitch believes we should prepare to pay a lot more for flights now and wait for prices to drop when we move to lockdown Levels 2 and 1. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.