While pupils will have to wait another week to go to school, teachers are back. Masego Rahlaga spoke to a teacher from Johannesburg. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - While pupils will have to wait another week to go to school, teachers are back. Grade 7 and 12 pupils were expected to return on Monday after spending ten weeks at home, but some schools said they weren't ready. Gauteng, however, has been rearing to go. READ: Motshekga outlines reasons for delaying reopening of schools isiZulu teacher Xolani Buthelezi reflected on how difficult 2020 has been. Buthelezi says he has missed interacting with his pupils but he fears for their lives, as well as his own and those of his colleagues. "I am scared because this is a new thing that we are experiencing as a country. And even now, as we have to go back to teaching… we are not comfortable because this is a different situation”. WATCH: Basic Education Minister gives clarity on readiness to reopen schools Buthelezi says he is also prepared to join those on the frontline. “Now because of this pandemic, it’s very scary for us. But there is nothing we can do, but we must come to work," he said. "We are in a new society where if you are uneducated, you are nothing. So, we must encourage these young ones. This pandemic is a global crisis. But we can just stand there. We must sacrifice and take that risk”. READ: SAHRC takes Western Cape to court over reopening of schools Teacher unions have encouraged their members not to return for duty unless proper Personal Protective Equipment is made available to them. Unions also say no school should open its doors until all schools are ready. Classrooms at schools across the country have been empty since mid-March. Teachers are expected to receive pupils next Monday if everything goes according to plan. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.