Brazilian cemetery workers wear protective suits as they carry out the burial of Edivaldo da Silva, who died at the age of 77 from COVID-19. GENEVA - New coronavirus cases had their biggest daily increase ever as the pandemic worsens globally and has yet to peak in central America, the World Health Organization (WHO) said. The organisation urged countries to press on with efforts to contain the virus. "More than six months into the pandemic, this is not the time for any country to take its foot off the pedal," WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told an online briefing. READ: COVID-19: SA death toll at 1080 More than 136,000 new cases were reported worldwide on Sunday, the most in a single day so far, he said. Nearly 75 percent of them were reported from 10 countries, mostly in the Americas and South Asia. In response to a question on China, WHO's top emergencies expert Dr Mike Ryan said retrospective studies of how the outbreak has been addressed could wait, adding: "We need to focus now on what we are doing today to prevent second peaks." Ryan also said infections in central American countries including Guatemala were still on the rise, and that they were "complex" epidemics. READ: Declared coronavirus cases top seven million globally: report "I think this is a time of great concern," he said, calling for strong government leadership and international support for the region. Brazil is now one of the hotspots of the pandemic, with the second-highest number of confirmed cases, behind only the United States, and a death toll that last week surpassed Italy's. Maria van Kerkhove, a WHO epidemiologist, said that a "comprehensive approach" was essential in South America. READ: Karim says SA must learn to live with COVID-19 More than 7 million people have been reported infected with the coronavirus globally and over 400,000 have died. "This is far from over," Van Kerkhove said. At least half of Singapore's newly-discovered coronavirus cases show no symptoms, the co-head of the government's virus task force told Reuters on Monday, reinforcing the city-state's decision to ease lockdown restrictions very gradually. READ: Trump cuts ties with WHO Van Kerkhove said that many countries doing contact tracing had identified asymptomatic cases but were not finding that they caused further spread of the virus, adding: "It is very rare". Ryan, asked about technical cooperation with the United States after President Donald Trump's announcement 10 days ago that it was terminating its relationship with the WHO, said the WHO relies heavily on experts from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institutes of Health. "We will continue to do that until we are otherwise instructed or informed," he added. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.