There will be no school for pupils in Grade 7 and 12 on Monday. Instead, pupils will return to school on 8 June. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - There will be no school for pupils in Grade 7 and 12 on Monday. But the Western Cape said schools in the province will reopen on Monday. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schafer said the school week will begin with orientating the pupils to the new procedures they will need to follow at the schools. READ: Alert level 3: Reopening of schools delayed Teachers and school management in the rest of the country are expected to report for duty on Monday morning. The Basic Education Department said the decision not to reopen schools was taken following a meeting with stakeholders on Saturday. Minister Angie Motshekga is expected to brief the nation on Monday morning. Let's get some reaction from the general secretary of the South African Democratic Teachers Union, Mugwena Maluleke. Courtesy #DStv403 Meanwhile, the South African Democratic Teachers' Union (Sadtu) said parents shouldn't send their children to school until it's safe. The union says many schools are not ready to reopen because they don't have protective gear and water, and do not meet the safety requirements. READ: Schools are not ready to reopen in June - Sadtu "We therefore call on all schools not to reopen until the non-negotiables have been delivered to all schools," Sadtu said in a statement. "To further contribute to disparities between schools would be irresponsible. READ: SAHRC to probe school readiness "The reaction of the Western Cape to the call not to commence with the opening of schools will be closely scrutinised, especially whether they will show solidarity with the plight of other provinces and indeed, sympathy with the plight of thousands of our teachers and children across the nation." The Congress of South African Students said no pupil should return to school until adequate PPE is provided by the Education Department. Cosas president Thabang Mokoena said it's pleased by the decision not to reopen schools on Monday. Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.