Thousands flock to to watch the solar eclipse at the Taipei Planetarium, where a dozen telescopes have been set up to see the phenomenon. HONG KONG - Skywatchers along a narrow band from west Africa to the Arabian Peninsula, India and the Far East witnessed a dramatic "ring of fire" solar eclipse on Sunday. So-called annular eclipses occur when the Moon -- passing between Earth and the Sun -- is not quite close enough to our planet to completely obscure sunlight, leaving a thin ring of the solar disc visible. They happen every year or two, and can only be seen from a narrow pathway across the planet. Sunday's eclipse arrived on the northern hemisphere's longest day of the year -- the summer solstice -- when the North Pole is tilted most directly towards the Sun. It was first visible in northeastern Republic of Congo from 5.56am just a few minutes after sunrise. READ: 'Ring of fire' solar eclipse to dim Africa, Asia That was the point of maximum duration, with the blackout lasting a minute and 22 seconds. Arcing eastward across Africa and Asia, it reached "maximum eclipse" -- with a perfect solar halo around the Moon -- over Uttarakhand, India near the Sino-Indian border at 12.10pm. More spectacular, but less long-lived: the exact alignment of the Earth, Moon and Sun was visible for only 38 seconds. In Nairobi, East Africa, observers saw only a partial eclipse as clouds blocked the sky for several seconds at the exact moment the Moon should have almost hidden the Sun. The annular eclipse is visible from only about two percent of Earth's surface, Florent Delefie, an astronomer at the Paris Observatory, told AFP. READ: South Americans marvel at total solar eclipse "It's a bit like switching from a 500-watt to a 30-watt light bulb," he added. "It's a cold light and you don't see as well." In Hong Kong, dozens of skywatchers ranging from astronomy enthusiasts with telescopes to families enjoying Father's Day gathered at a waterfront park in east Kowloon to witness the spectacle, which lasted about 90 minutes. A solar eclipse always occurs around two weeks before or after a lunar eclipse, when the Moon moves into Earth's shadow. Lunar eclipses are visible from about half of the Earth's surface. A lunar eclipse is due on July 5, with the best viewing over North and South America, southern Europe and Africa. There will be a second solar eclipse in 2020 on December 14 over South America. Because the Moon will be a bit closer to Earth, it will block out the Sun's light entirely.