Various malls have been targeted by armed robbers in brazen heists, especially of jewellery. In the latest incident, a group of six men allegedly robbed a jewellery store in Bryanston, Johannesburg. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Various malls have been targeted by armed robbers in brazen heists, especially of jewellery. In the latest incident, a group of six men allegedly robbed a jewellery store in Bryanston, Johannesburg. An incident report details how the robbers entered the mall at different times, with two approaching the jewellery store at around 12.11pm, pulling sledgehammers out of a trolley and smashing the display windows. READ: Police shoot robber at Centurion Mall The robbers grabbed the jewellery, fled the scene on foot and fired shots at security guards as they were running towards a getaway car. Anti-crime activist Yusuf Abramjee believes jewellery stores are the latest targets for criminals. "We know that many of these jewellery stores carry very expensive stock, millions of rands," Abramjee said. READ: Police search for suspects after R8mn jewellery heist Abramjee says these criminals are professionals. “What we are now seeing is the re-emergence of these gangs specialising in jewellery heists in my view," he said. "The mere fact they are executing these robberies in broad daylight shows how brazen they are.” READ: Armed robbers dressed in PPE hit KZN Checkers Gauteng police spokesperson Mathapelo Peters says they’ve seen a decrease in jewellery robberies in recent years, having registered nine such incidents since the beginning of the lockdown. “We do believe that it is the work of one person. It is organised crime, hence it is investigated by the organised crime detectives,” Peters said. Peters says the SAPS will revisit the relationship it has with private security teams deployed at malls to boost security. Three suspects were arrested for one of the robberies. Various malls have been targeted by armed robbers, in recent heists. Criminals see jewelry stores as an easy target. In the most recent incident, a group of six men allegedly robbed a jewelry store in Bryanston. #eNCA reporter Aviwe Mtila is following this story. Courtesy #DStv403