Eastern Cape hospitals are being scrutinised by the deputy public protector. This comes after media reports about the challenges facing healthcare workers and poor service delivery. Advocate Kholeka Gcaleka is on a two-day inspection visit to the province. Courtesy #DStv403 PORT ELIZABETH - Eastern Cape hospitals are being scrutinised by the deputy public protector after media reports about the challenges facing healthcare workers and poor service delivery. Advocate Kholeka Gcaleka is on a two-day inspection visit to the province. COVID-19 in SA: Eastern Cape's shortcomings Gcaleka has taken a tour of the Uitenhage Provincial Hospital, where she encountered some unhappy healthcare workers. They used the opportunity to pour out their frustrations over lack of access to Personal protective equipment (PPE) and the overburdened healthcare system. The visibly unimpressed deputy public protector deemed one hospital as below-average. COVID-19 in SA: Eastern Cape hospitals nearly full Gcaleka said, "from what we have seen so far here, and what the staff is saying, yes there are valid complaints. Unfortunately, I don't know if management might be aware of the challenges at a higher level." "Some of the challenges that have been raised by staff were not raised by management. So clearly there is a gap between staff and management in respect of the issues that serve as a hindrance for service delivery." Gcaleka said she will pass on her findings to the health minister so that the issues can be dealt with as a matter of urgency. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.