President Cyril Ramaphosa has appointed a team of ministers to get to the bottom of the PPE tender allegations. He wants a list of all companies, and the tender amounts involved this week. Justice Minister Ronald Lamola will chair the committee. Political editor Vuyo Mvoko spoke to Sally Burdett about this. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Minister of Justice and Correctional Services Ronald Lamola briefed media on the outcomes of a Cabinet meeting aimed at addressing corruption and alleged looting of funds intended for COVID-19 relief. Lamola stood in for Minister in the Presidency Jackson Mthembu, who was excused from the briefing due to a bereavement. READ: COVID-19 corruption will be dealt with decisively: Ramaphosa Lamola's briefing began with a condemnation of the individuals who have partaken in corrupt activities. "Some unscrupulous individuals and companies have been looting state resources that were meant to provide food to needy families and PPEs to frontline officials, particularly healthcare workers," the minister said. READ: Ramaphosa orders PPE fraud probe Lamola announced special coordination centres aims to strengthen the collective efforts among law-enforcement agencies to prevent, detect, investigate, and prosecute COVID-related corruption. He said allegations of corruption are being investigated and include the fraudulent distribution of food parcels, social relief grants, procurement of PPEs and other medical supplies, and the looting of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. READ: Public Protector to probe COVID-19 complaints President Cyril Ramaphosa has directed officials to ensure the arrest of those implicated in COVID-19 graft. Cabinet also welcomed the amendments to the terms of reference for the State Capture Commission which now allows law enforcement agencies to access evidence presented at the commission. The minister said cabinet ministers will still be subjected to lifestyle audits once it's been actioned by the Department of Public Service and Administration. Justice Minister Ronald Lamola gave feedback on a cabinet meeting held yesterday. President Cyril Ramaphosa set up a ministerial team to oversee COVID-19 tenders following an outcry over corruption concerns in the awarding of PPE contracts. Courtesy #DStv403 pic.twitter.com/NgPqNbbD7j