Please note some may find details of this story disturbing. Police are making progress in tracking those responsible for murdering five women in Mthwalume. A month before the series of deadly attacks, a woman had a narrow escape from a rapist. She spoke exclusively to eNCA’s Dasen Thathiah about her ordeal in the same town. Courtesy #DStv403   *Please note some readers may find details of this story disturbing. MTHWALUME - Police are making progress in tracking those responsible for murdering five women in Mthwalume. A month before the series of deadly attacks, a woman had a narrow escape from a rapist. She spoke exclusively to eNCA’s Dasen Thathiah about her ordeal in the same town.
She saw the news break of a number of young women being killed in Mthwalume. Nosipho Gumede, Akhona Gumede, Nelisiwe Dube, Zama Chiliza, and an unidentified victim had all lost their lives and she shared her feelings of guilt, at having survived. The woman, who chose to remain anonymous, said, "when I was reading about these incidents, it was sad because I thought that I was meant to be the first one before the others. That’s what hurts me so much, so much so that right now it reopens an old wound.” READ: Mthwalume murders: victims' families live in fear Her harrowing encounter with a violent attacker occurred a month before the Gumedes disappeared. She said, “we met on Facebook, we knew each other via Facebook. We talked and he asked me for a WhatsApp number and I gave it to him.” The man was persistent but she couldn’t meet him due to work commitments until 15 February when he told her that he was in Durban and she should meet him there. She described their first meeting, “when I arrived in Durban, I told him I need to use the bathroom and put on some makeup. I took my bag and went to the toilets. He followed me, and when I started taking out the powder he took my bag away. I ran after him until we reached the freeway. Once there, he said he would show me what happens to women like me. I said to him, it's the first time we are meeting. Why are we fighting?" "He then stopped a car, which took us straight to Mthwalume. On our way there, he kept talking to me on WhatsApp while he was sitting at the front of the car. He was talking to the driver and complimenting his car until we arrived at the place where we fought. He just changed and hit me.” She related the violence she experienced at the hands of her captor, “when we arrived at the house, I put my bag down. He went outside and came back, clicked his tongue, went out and came back again. When he came back he told me to undress. I asked him why should I undress? Why are you coming back angry, saying I must undress? He said he told me to take off my clothes then he slapped me. I asked him why are you hitting me? He said he told me to undress. I saw that this person is angry so let me take off these clothes. I took off my clothes. After undressing, he took a charging cable and tied my hands. He bit me, he raped me, he hit me, strangled me." "While he was raping me, he poured water in the bucket and put me inside. He abused me until 4 am.” READ: Two questioned in connection with Mthwalume murders The attacker was infuriated further by messages from a friend on her phone. “He threatened him, he told him that he knew him and that he would kill him because he's sleeping with his wife, the person he's in love with is his wife. After two days, he threatened him and I later received a phone call to say that he <her friend> had been found dead in his bedroom. I think he killed him because he'd already threatened him.” The woman explained how she was able to escape, “he took me to my family. He then told my family that I was sleeping around and sending pictures of my private parts to men. He took me with him and then threw me into a bushy area. He put a knife to my neck and said he will kill me, which is what he was doing in the house. He bit me and then put a knife to my neck and said because I'm not dying, he's thinking of killing me and dumping me in the Mfazazane sugar cane field or the Mthwalume river. That's when I begged him and said, it's fine I will leave.” “I asked him to let me go and that I would leave and never come back to Mthwalume. I promised I would not point out where he’d been keeping me or when it happened. I also said I would not go to the police, that I would just leave Mthwalume and never come back. He would never see me in Mthwalume again.” She said her life has been changed by the assault, "after the incidents, it was like I'm mentally disturbed because I wasn't sleeping at night and not eating. After two months of not eating and sleeping, I would always think of what happened." "Whenever I'd sit alone I’d see it, at night when I tried I couldn't close my eyes because I would just see it. When I switched off the light, I would see him. I was living like I was crazy. It took time to accept.” READ: Women's Day: Ramaphosa pleads for GBV to end The woman has seen medical professionals and received counselling after her ordeal but she says she still bears the wounds of the assault, “I can't say my life is coming together because I'm still living in fear. Since the suspects haven't been found, I'm also scared. Maybe tomorrow he will try and catch me again if he hears that I have posted on social media. He might come back to me or to my family, especially my family." "I’m not worried about myself because I have a place I can run to. With my family, I ask myself where would they go or run to?” After moving to another province, the Mthwalume survivor has been able to open a criminal case against the man. She said, "if he’s arrested, I would like to see him rot in jail or that they give him a life sentence. I would like to see him dying for all the sins of women who are abused in the whole world so that others can also learn a lesson.”