A KwaZulu-Natal man is living in fear after the circulation of a fake social media post labelling him a serial killer. The real suspect in the Mthwalume murders - who allegedly committed suicide at the weekend - shares his surname. eNCA’s Dasen Thathiah spoke to Siphamandla Khomo in this exclusive interview. Courtesy #DStv403 MTHWALUME - A KwaZulu-Natal man is living in fear after the circulation of a fake social media post labelling him a serial killer. The real suspect in the Mthwalume murders -- who allegedly died by suicide at the weekend -- shares his surname. Siphamandla Khomo shares a surname with the prime suspect in the Mthwalume murders case in which the bodies of five women were found in a sugar cane field. READ: Suspect linked to Mthwalume murders commits suicide Mduduzi Khomo, who was nabbed on Friday, was a petrol attendant. Siphamandla Khomo does not work at the same station but he is the owner’s business associate. Somehow, these vague links have resulted in a false Facebook post that’s turned his life upside down. READ: MEC Bheki Ntuli: Mthwalume suspect indicated there may be more bodies “People have posted that I am serial killer, I kill people. So there was my picture posted by people on the phone; they sent it to me. I was confused. If they say I'm a serial killer and I am going to appear in court, where was I arrested?” Mduduzi Khomo, meanwhile, allegedly died by suicide while in police custody at the weekend. Khomo explained, “the real problem is that people who know me know I'm not involved in this. But people who don’t know me see me outside [prison] and because they’ve only seen me on Facebook, they say this person hasn't been arrested and Bheki Cele was misleading us when he said he was arrested.” EXCLUSIVE: Mthwalume rape survivor tells her story Khomo is worried about his reputation and safety, particularly at a time when emotions are running high over the deaths of the five women since April. Khomo said he tried to open a case, but he was advised to seek legal assistance instead.