File: The ANC says government's measures to curb the spread of coronavirus have proven successful and saved many lives. JOHANNESBURG - The African National Congress has commended South Africans for playing their part in flattening the curve of COVID-19 infections. This as it offers it's full support to President Cyril Ramaphosa following the announcement that the country is moving to Alert Level 2. The ruling party says government's measures to curb the spread of coronavirus have proven successful and saved many lives. READ: COVID-19: SA moves to Level 2 from Monday at midnight It's also urged government to make sure that it secures the country's economic prospects as we fight the virus. The party has also called on all sectors of society to be responsible and stick to guidelines in place to keep citizens safe "from the invisible enemy that is the COVID-19 virus". Opposition parties have reacted negatively to the president's speech. READ: Visit family and friends but remain cautious, Ramaphosa urges The DA said the extension of the State of Disaster only serves to place power and control in the hands of a few. In a strongly-worded statement, the DA's interim leader John Steenhuisen says lifting the ban on alcohol and tobacco sales isn't something government should be praised or thanked for. The EFF rejected the easing of lockdown regulations. READ: Political parties respond to easing of lockdown regulations It believes government conspired to manipulate data and lie about progress in the fight against COVID-19. The party is calling for an independent review of the data being presented to the public. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.