The country is reeling from a host of scandals involving COVID 19 funding and projects. The ANC has made more promises to deal with it. Yesterday, the Finance Minister said Treasury will be tightening procurement measures. Now, the president's ordered an investigation. For more on this, Karam Singh from Corruption Watch spoke to Thembekile Mrototo. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa has appointed several ministers to investigate the alleged looting of millions through dodgy PPE tenders. Six cabinet ministers will examine COVID-19 related tenders. READ: ANC taking urgent action against corruption: Mabe Correctional Services Minister Ronald Lamola has been appointed as the chairperson of the committee. The president asked for the full participation of relevant departments in providing information to the ministerial committee, including the names of companies involved and the amounts of tenders and contracts they have been awarded. READ: Thieves are assembling at the door: Tito talks tough Ramaphosa has been battling to explain why his cabinet and NEC members scored the lucrative contracts. The other ministers serving on the council are Minister in the Presidency Jackson Mthembu, Minister of Finance Tito Mboweni, Minister of Police Bheki Cele, Minister for Public Service and Administration Senzo Mchunu, and Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. READ: COVID-19 corruption will be dealt with decisively: Ramaphosa Ramaphosa's own spokesperson, and children of ministers, have been implicated in the fraud. The report into the matter will be made publicly available. President @CyrilRamaphosa has appointed a committee to deal with alleged corruption in the procurement of resources for the purposes of responding to the covid19 pandemic. Minister, Ronald Lamola has been appointed as the chairperson of that committee.#sabcnews pic.twitter.com/cjAUnTNlNZ President Cyril Ramaphosa is calling for an investigation into alleged COVID-19 tender fraud. Justice and Correctional Services Minister Ronald Lamola will be heading that investigation and is expected to brief the media at 5pm. Political analyst Karima Brown spoke to @ThebiMrototo.  President Cyril Ramaphosa has appointed a team of ministers to get to the bottom of the PPE tender allegations. He wants a list of all companies, and the tender amounts involved this week. Justice Minister Ronald Lamola will chair the committee. Political editor Vuyo Mvoko spoke to Sally Burdett about this. Courtesy #DStv403 President Cyril Ramaphosa has appointed a team of ministers to get to the bottom of the PPE tender allegations. He wants a list of all companies, and the tender amounts involved this week. Justice Minister Ronald Lamola will chair the committee. Political analyst Xolani Dube spoke to Sally Burdett about this. Courtesy #DStv403