Residents of Philippi on the Cape Flats are calling for an end to violence against women, following yet another murder. #eNCA Courtesy #DStv403 CAPE TOWN - Men in Philippi and Langa are taking a stand against gender-based violence – by addressing potential perpetrators. They're from NGOs that educate men about the scourge that has led to the deaths of countless women in the country. In a recent incident, the body of a 22-year-old woman was found dumped in a rubbish container in Brown’s Farm, near Philippi. A similar incident happened in the same area two months ago. READ: Philippi residents brave the storm against gender-based violence As children, Siyabonga Khusela and Luyolo Lengisi both watched their mothers suffer abuse at the hands of their partners. They started #LangaForMen last September to prevent this from happening to other women. Siyabonga Khusela said, “forming #LangaForMen was kind of personal to us because we know our mothers never got the justice that they wanted.” The initiative hosts workshops with men and young boys, runs sanitary pad drives in the township, and it’s even got the support of South African rugby hero Siya Kolisi and his foundation. Lulama Coto said he used to think hitting women is okay. His perspective has changed since attending the “What Makes a Man” workshops by NGO, the Cesvi Foundation in Philippi. The workshops, some even held in busy taverns, teach men how to stop gender-based violence in their communities. Coto said, “I kept grudges, because when I grew up, my father used to beat my mother and I thought that was the right thing up until I attended the sessions then I decided no, we need to stop it.” Coto is now one of dozens of men in the community, spreading the word about “What Makes a Man”. GBV: Philippi residents continue to call for justice The Cesvi Foundation's Thembani Dyule said, “we feel men actually need to influence the changes, we don’t want women to feel or to be scared around men. So we feel that men should take responsibility and we’re doing this by engaging men in the debate.” Both organisations agree what they're doing is only scratching the surface. They say more programmes aimed at educating men are needed in the battle against gender-based violence.