The revelations in cricket, driven by former Proteas players about how they were treated in the team, have inspired others to speak out about their experiences. One of these is former provincial player, Palesa Monakale. eNCA Sports Reporter Hloni Mtimkulu spoke to her. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - The revelations in cricket, driven by former Proteas players about how they were treated in the team, have inspired others to speak out about their experiences. One of these is former provincial player Palesa Monakale. The 30-year-old details difficulties she had with teammates in the formative years of her cricket career. READ: Cricket SA appoints new acting CEO “When I tried to engage my team-mates, just having conversations, I noticed that they are not comfortable with me, or just having a relationship with me. “They had a better relationship, I don’t know, because they can speak Afrikaans together with the teammates, maybe they had a longer relationship before I joined the team, maybe they knew each other from club level. “I felt it was his duty as a coach to make us gel as a team, but it was not like that, he only had a relationship with my teammates, besides me, and my teammates had a relationship with him.” READ: Racial divisions laid bare in SA cricket Monakale was just 14 when she was scouted into the provincial squad. Before then, she had been playing in boys’ teams in Gugulethu. “When I got selected to play for Western Province, for me, I took that as a stepping stone to greatness, from there and maybe play for the Proteas women team, so for me, I was in the team with that excitement, and with that hope, that maybe one day I’ll pay for the Proteas women team. READ: CSA to decide stance on Black Lives Matter movement "But the moment I experienced the things I mentioned, it broke me, and it felt like I didn’t have a say. I was quiet, I couldn’t raise my opinion, talk about how I feel…” she explained. After being benched for some time, Monakale was named Player of the Match when she was eventually given an opportunity to play, but her achievement was not celebrated by all. “That’s what you’ll expect or hope that a team would give support to a player that does well. But for me, it was not like that, but when it’s other teammates that are doing well, they get that motivation, or the cheers, or the nice words of encouragement.” With her dreams shattered, the now 30-year-old took the decision to quit. READ: CSA establishes transformation ombud “When I was done with Western Province u19 I joined the senior team, only for a year, and then I was doing my first year in Sports Management. I got the same treatment there, and there it was even worse because there they were just not budgeting. "That’s when I decided and realised that ‘you know what Palesa’ just focus on your studies, maybe cricket is just not for you.’” eNCA reached out to the Western Province Cricket Association for comment. Those who were coaching at the time are no longer there. The organisation says it is undergoing a review of its processes, following inputs made by one its senior coaches Ashwell Prince. The plan is to deal with issues that may arise now or in the future. #BLM #BlackLivesMatter #ThisIsOurGame #ThisIsMyStory #MSW pic.twitter.com/jbMIdydLRC