Several hospitals in the Eastern Cape are being forced to get creative to ensure their PPE supplies don't run out. Many are turning to NGOs for help. The shortages have come under scrutiny, including by the Public Protector's office. eNCA's Monique Mortlock has the story. FORT BEAUFORT - Several hospitals in the Eastern Cape are being forced to get creative to ensure their PPE supplies don't run out and many are turning to NGOs for help. The shortages have come under scrutiny, including by the Public Protector's office. Over the last couple of weeks, NGO Gift of the Givers has responded to dozens of appeals from hospitals in the Eastern Cape for much-needed personal protective equipment and medical supplies. READ: Over 27,000 health workers infected with COVID-19: Mkhize At Fort Beaufort Hospital, the shortage of PPE and staff have led to major headaches. In the town of Alice, the Victoria Hospital has been doing daily audits of its PPE supplies to ensure they don't run out. The Eastern Cape Health MEC says her office has not received any complaints about a lack of PPE at hospitals in these regions. READ: COVID-19 in SA: Curve flattening in Eastern Cape, says premier But should there be complaints, she says she'll look into them. "I will have to go specifically if Adelaide, Victoria and Fort Beaufort are mentioned," said Sindiswa Gomba. "However, in my office, I do have stock for intervention when there are such issues. It has not come to my office." READ: COVID-19 in SA: Eastern Cape's shortcomings The national health department says more than 27,000 healthcare workers have tested positive for COVID-19 in South Africa, with the lion's share coming from the public sector. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.