Today is the last day of the ANC's special national executive committee meeting. It's expected that the National General Council documents will be discussed. eNCA's political editor Vuyo Mvoko is following this story. Courtesy#DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa and secretary-general Ace Magashule are scheduled to appear before the party’s integrity committee to answer questions on their alleged involvement in acts and utterances that go against the anti-corruption fight. Speaking on eNCA, party deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte said not only did the ANC leadership confront the corruption scourge head-on this past weekend, but it also confronted such attendant issues as the lack of consistency and pandering to factional interests, often at a huge cost to the country. READ: Magashule denies receiving any letter from ANC Integrity Committee In a week that former president Jacob Zuma appeared on the opposite end of the corruption debate to his successor, South Africans were keen to know just whose side the party leadership would take. As it turned out, the incumbent’s letter to the party faithful -- lamenting the state of affairs and the party’s complicity -- was discussed, but his predecessor’s rebuttal was not. READ: Jacob Zuma pens letter challenging Ramaphosa The meeting heard that Ramaphosa was willing and ready to appear before the party’s integrity committee to answer questions on who funded his ANC presidential campaign, and why. Magashule, too, will appear for comments he apparently made that he would not step down if he was accused of corruption. READ: Zuma's letter expected to be on the agenda at ANC NEC meeting “We’ve discussed being consistent, the concept of consistency," Duarte said. "Up to now, it has been wholly inconsistent. Some people have stepped out of their positions and have stepped down from the ANC." The appearance of the two men before the integrity committee is proof, Duarte said, that no one in the ANC is above and beyond scrutiny. READ: Duarte confirms Magashule summoned by ANC Integrity Committee She explained how the process works, and some of its challenges. Duarte said where state law enforcement agencies are supposed to take over it doesn’t help that their mills often grind very slowly. The party’s top brass will pronounce on the meeting’s outcomes at a media briefing to be held in the next day or two. ANC Deputy Secretary General Jessie Duarte has confirmed that Ace Magashule has received a letter, summoning him to appear before the party's integrity commission. Courtesy #DStv403