Monde Zondeki has added his voice to the Black Lives Matter movement. The former Proteas fast bowler says he never experienced outright discrimination during his playing days. But he has backed Makhaya Ntini's revelations about the ‘90’s team culture. And it’s at grassroots level, he says, where change needs to happen. CAPE TOWN - Monde Zondeki has added his voice to the Black Lives Matter movement. The former Proteas fast bowler says he never experienced outright discrimination during his playing days, but he has backed Makhaya Ntini's revelations about the ‘90’s team culture. It is at grassroots level he says, where change needs to happen. READ: Racial divisions laid bare in SA cricket Zondeki said he walked into a different team culture to that experienced by Ntini. While he never experienced blatant racism, the former Proteas fast bowler does feel it was done in a less overt way. Zondeki said, “it was through selection, especially internationally where I’ve had conversations with coaches where it certainly felt like it was because of my race that they would say certain things to me. "The one time I was man of the match against Zimbabwe and Ashwell scored a 100, we were the two top performers in the test match and then three weeks later we go to the West Indies and we both on the bench, for the first test. Things like that where you can’t say that was obviously racist, but you start to think why was I on the bench when I was man of the match just a couple of days ago.” There was no platform for players like Zondeki to voice their opinions on such matters. Zondeki feels integration in the game needs to be taken seriously at the grassroots level, to flood the sport with talented players, and remove the need for quotas at franchises. WATCH: Tsotsobe shares his experience in the Proteas The 38-year old played six Tests, 13 ODI’s and one T20 for the Proteas. He said there were good times as well during his time with the national team. Zondeki said, “we speak a lot about the negative from the past. I do want to say that I’ve had some good experiences with my team. In 2003 when I first started coming into the team, I remember Boucher, Neil McKenzie inviting me out for dinner. I remember in 2008 AB, Morne, myself, JP Duminy I can’t remember if Dale was there, but we used to go out and watch movies in England.” Cricket South Africa has organised a culture camp with Proteas players with the hope of having an open discussion, to iron out any differences within the setup.