Legendary radio personality Bob Mabena died after going into cardiac arrest on Monday. Lets cross-over to our Reporter Masego Rahlaga for reflections on Mabena's life. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - A humble man who never forgot his roots. That is how legendary radio personality Bob Mabena is being remembered by his former teachers and childhood friends. The media legend died on Monday following a cardiac arrest. He was 51. Born in the late 1960s, Bob Kgomotso Mabena grew up in Atteridgeville township in Pretoria West. READ: Broadcasting legend Bob Mabena dies at 51 He attended high school there, where his teachers have described him as a brilliant pupil who excelled in English and debate. Moagi Mangena, one of his former teachers, said Bob was an excellent tennis player. "He tried his hand in karate but he found it a bit tough and went to other things. We then established a debating team. He was the leader of that debating team." He died of a cardiac arrest on Monday at the age of 51. For more reaction, we speak to Media personality Penny Lebyane. Courtesy #DStv403 His former principal Greg Makoboto said Mabena was never in the office for the wrong reasons. "He was popular, but he was possible for the right reasons. I remember his English teacher used to speak very well of him. He used to be in the debating society”. Those who knew him said Mabena was someone who always gave back to his community. READ: An iconic voice has gone silent - Ramaphosa His childhood friends say a local park was his favourite place to play soccer and remained his favourite place to hang out with them every time he came to visit home. Butiki Mashao remembered, “we used to call him Polo. We used to play soccer with him right here in this park where I am standing. He used to DJ at a club before moving to radio bob. But what a humble man what a loss to us and everybody”. Many say they will miss hearing Mabena’s voice on radio. The man who came to be known as The Jammer is being hailed for being a person who knew both who he was and where he came from.