Alyssa Medina walks in the burned remains of her home during the LNU Lightning Complex fire in Vacaville, California. LOS ANGELES - Crews from across the US, military planes and National Guard troops poured into California to join the fight against two dozen major wildfires burning across the state, as officials warned of more dry lightning storms approaching. The worst of the blazes, including the second and third largest wildfires in recorded California history, were burning in and around the San Francisco Bay Area, where more than 200,000 people have been told to flee their homes. READ: California fires force thousands to flee as governor asks for help "Extreme fire behaviour with short and long-range spotting are continuing to challenge firefighting efforts. Fires continue to make runs in multiple directions and impacting multiple communities," the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection said of the largest conflagration, the LNU Lightning Complex. The fires, which were ignited by lightning from dry thunderstorms across Northern and Central California over the past week, have killed at least six people and destroyed some 700 homes and other structures. All told nearly one million acres have been blackened, according to Cal Fire. READ: More evacuations as massive fires rapidly expand in California Smoke and ash has blanketed much of the northern part of California for days, drifting for miles and visible from several states away. The LNU Complex, which began as a string of smaller fires that merged into one massive blaze, has burned across roughly 340,000 acres of Napa, Sonoma, Lake, Yolo and Solano counties, Cal Fire spokesman Daniel Berlant said at a news briefing on Sunday. READ: Thousands flee as fast-moving wildfires spread in California It is now the second-largest wildfire on record in the state and was only 17 percent contained as of Sunday afternoon. To the south the SCU Lightning Complex was nearly as large, at 339,000 acres, and only 10 percent contained, Berlant said. Reinforcement crews and fire engines have arrived from Arizona, Montana, Nevada, Texas and Utah, with more on the way, Berlant said. Some 200 members of the National Guard had been activated and the US military sent planes, he said. US President Donald Trump on Saturday declared the fires a major disaster, freeing up federal funds to help residents and businesses harmed by the fires in seven counties pay for temporary housing and repairs.