File: A supporter of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) Alliance gestures the party's symbol from inside of a prison truck following their appearance at the magistrate's court in Harare. HARARE - Zimbabwean police on Friday arrested an outspoken opposition leader who went into hiding in late July after he appeared on a police wanted list, his party said. The Movement for Democratic Change alliance tweeted that its vice chairman, Job Sikhala, had been arrested but it gave no details. The state-run daily Herald cited the police confirming that Sikhala, who is also a lawyer, had been arrested in the western Harare suburb of Tynwald. Sikhala is one of more than a dozen opposition figures who went into hiding after police issued an alert seeking information leading to their arrest ahead of anti-government protests planned for July 31. READ: Police, protesters clash outside Zimbabwe embassy His arrest came as another opposition politician and government critic, Jacob Ngarivhume, was denied bail for the third time since being detained for backing the protests. The demonstrations were de-facto banned because of Zimbabwe's anti-coronavirus measures. Ngarivhume made a last-ditch attempt to secure his release, arguing that the demonstrations had remained peaceful. But a magistrate rejected this and said Ngarivhume remained a danger to society as he could organise protests if let out on bail. READ: There is a political crisis in Zimbabwe - Lindiwe Zulu Ngarivhume, the leader of Transform Zimbabwe, has been in jail since July 20 on charges of inciting public violence. He was arrested alongside prominent investigative journalist Hopewell Chin'ono, who also remains in prison on public violence charges. A ruling on Chin'ono's latest bail application is expected on Monday. Zimbabwe's influential Catholic bishops issued a rare and unusually strong pastoral letter earllier this month, deploring an "unprecedented" government crackdown on dissent against a backdrop of economic ruin and allegations of rampant rights abuses.