Among the biggest categories of these imports were electrical machinery, precious metals and stones, and plastics. WASHINGTON - Goods imported from Hong Kong must be marked "Made in China" to be sold in the United States as part of Washington's punitive response to a sweeping clampdown on the city, US customs authorities were set to announce Tuesday. Last month, President Donald Trump retaliated to Beijing's imposition of a tough new security law in Hong Kong by removing special trading privileges for the financial hub, which in 2018 sold goods worth $6.3-billion to the United States. Among the biggest categories of these imports were electrical machinery, precious metals and stones, and plastics. READ: China says US moves against Huawei are 'dirty play' "With respect to imported goods produced in Hong Kong, such goods may no longer be marked to indicate 'Hong Kong' as their origin, but must be marked to indicate 'China'," said a draft document from US Customs and Border Protection. Hong Kong said the expected move ignored the city's status as a separate member of the World Trade Organization and violated international trade rules. "Hong Kong enjoys the unique status as a separate customs territory... which is not granted nor can be revoked by any other country," the city's government said in the statement. READ: Trump 'more and more angry at China' over coronavirus Until recently, Washington had treated imports from Hong Kong differently to goods from the rest of China, in recognition of the city's semi-autonomous status. However, after Beijing imposed the security law in June to quell last year's huge and often violent pro-democracy protests, Trump vowed that this would change. The customs document said the move was in accordance with an executive order made by Trump last month, "due to the determination that Hong Kong is no longer sufficiently autonomous to justify differential treatment in relation to China". A 45-day grace period would be granted to importers following the announcement to allow them time to ensure no goods were marked "Made in Hong Kong", it added.