 It's not every day that a member of an F1 team's backroom staff is acknowledged publicly. Less so, when it's a woman and of colour. JOHANNESBURG - It’s not every day that an off-track member of an F1 team is acknowledged publicly. Less so, when it’s a woman and of colour. But the world did take notice when Stephanie Travers held aloft the constructor’s winning trophy at the Styrian Grand Prix in Austria, last month. And she’s made a whole continent proud. READ: F1 champion Hamilton can expect a quicker car in Austria Zimbabwean-born Travers is living her dream as a fluid engineer in Formula One. Travers is the first woman of colour to stand on a Formula One podium to accept the constructor’s trophy. It was a career-defining moment for her, highlighted in a social media post by world champion Lewis Hamilton. “It was such a special moment for me, and it caught me by surprise," Travers said. READ: Hamilton on top in Austria "So when Lewis wrote that post I felt so proud that he acknowledged me for my hard work within the team, my positivity and my passion for the job. "It meant everything to me in that moment and just the whole experience from being on the podium to that, the reception from everyone across the world. It’s been fantastic.” As the only woman of colour in a male-dominated sport, she wants to inspire young girls of the future. “Now that I’ve been given this opportunity within F1, I hoped to be a good role model to that people wishing to follow in my footsteps can see that this is achievable to them too," Travers said. "Ultimately it’s all about working hard in the younger years in life so you have the correct foundation for later one. And just pursuing what you are passionate about.” I wanted to post this because it’s such an important moment. This is Stephanie who is one of my teammates. She is one of our trackside fluid engineers. On Sunday, she became the first black woman to stand on the podium in Formula 1 history. This is an amazing achievement and I just wanted to acknowledge her for her hard work, positivity, and passion for her job.  Like most of the jobs in our sport they are in high demand, and Stephanie was selected out of over 7000 applicants for her role. Steph said she wants to inspire young black children, and children of colour to believe that they can do it too, and I couldn’t agree more. Put your mind to it, and you can be anything you want to be. So whilst I really appreciate all of the congratulations, I wanted take the opportunity to lift her up, and share them with her. #manifest #hardwork #bethechange A post shared by  Lewis Hamilton (@lewishamilton) on Jul 13, 2020 at 12:57pm PDT