 JOHANNESBURG - South Africa will close its borders from Wednesday to all foreigners from countries highly impacted by the coronavirus pandemic. Visas will be refused to anyone who has visited a high-risk country in the last 20 days, and 35 of the country's 53 land ports will also be shut as of Monday. SUMMARY: Ramaphosa announces COVID-19 controls "We are imposing a travel ban on foreign nationals from high-risk countries such as Italy, Iran, South Korea, Spain, Germany, the United States, the United Kingdom and China from 18 March 2020," President Cyril Ramaphosa said in an address to the nation.   To date, 61 people in South Africa have tested positive for novel coronavirus. Around 50 of the coronavirus patients had recently travelled abroad. The number of infections more than doubled over the weekend with 37 new cases announced. Most came from Europe, the new epicentre of the virus, while others had returned from the United States and the Middle East. READ: Coronavirus cases in SA rise to 61 The new measures are bad news for tourism, which is a major foreign exchange earner and contributes to 10 percent of GDP. The industry already suffered a blow after Beijing blocked overseas tours from China, where coronavirus was first detected in December. "These losses are still going to increase," Tourism Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane warned last week, when travel bans had not yet been implemented. "Whatever happens, the truth of this situation is the virus will have a negative impact on the tourism sector." READ: SA issues travel ban amid COVID-19 outbreak threat SA Flyer magazine editor Guy Leitch said the effect of COVID-19 has been massive. "We've already seen weaker airlines folding," said Leitch. "All these airlines are going to head into massive operating losses. "It's going to certainly do great damage to the airline industry and cut out all the weaker airlines." Leitch said it's safe to say that SAA is definitely one of the weaker airlines. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. - Additional reporting eNCA 