Government will ramp up the screening, testing and management of Covid-19. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - South Africa, which has the highest numbers of confirmed coronavirus infections on the continent, will start mass door-to-door screening and testing for coronavirus, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Monday. The "unprecedented" exercise will be launched in the next few days, with at least 10,000 field workers deployed across the country of 57-million people, he said in an address to the nation. "We are now entering a new phase in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic," said the president. READ: Soldiers accused of heavy-handed policing Field workers will visit homes in villages, towns and cities to screen residents, and people with severe symptoms will be hospitalised. Those infected but asymptomatic or with moderate symptoms will have to remain in isolation at home or at government quarantine centres, the president said. Mobile technology will be used to trace people who will have been in contact with confirmed coronavirus patients. "This drive is far-reaching, it is intensive and it is unprecedented in scale," he added. READ: Five in quarantine after contact with Alex coronavirus patient The numbers of confirmed infections had risen to 1,326 cases with three deaths, he said. South Africa was Monday observing its fourth day of a 21-day lockdown order, but authorities have struggled to keep everyone at home. Ramaphosa said most people had "responded responsibly" to the lockdown. But he expressed concern about those who had defied the order and "have not yet appreciated the seriousness of this disease". Police say they have made hundreds of arrests so far of people violating the lockdown - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs. President Cyril Ramaphosa updated the nation on government’s efforts to curb the spread of COVID-19 last night. He announced field workers will be sent to people’s homes to screen and test them for the virus. Courtesy #DStv403