File: South Africa is taking part in a research trial to find treatment for the COVID-19. JOHANNESBURG - South Africa is taking part in a research trial to find treatment for the COVID-19. This is according to the health department. “We are pleased that South Africa is participating in the Public Health Emergency Solidarity Trial that has been initiated by the World Health Organisation to conduct a clinical trial to find effective treatment for COVID-19,” the department said in a statement. Experts have identified treatment options including Remdesivir : a drug which was previously used in an Ebola trial; Lopinavir/ritonavir : a licensed treatment for HIV/AIDS, Lopinavir/ritonavir with interferon beta-1a : used for multiple sclerosis; chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine : drugs used to treat malaria and rheumatology conditions respectively. READ: Second coronavirus death reported in South Africa The health department said the South African Solidarity research team is led by Professors Helen Rees and Jeremy Nel, working 30 senior academics, researchers and clinicians from eight medical schools in the country. These experts will commence the study in fourteen leading hospitals across the country. In addition, the department says flu vaccines are understocked. READ: Number of SA health workers infected with COVID-19 increase However, it says after engaging with the pharmaceutical industry “it became clear that the distribution of this vaccine has to be rationalised and prioritised. We have therefore taken a decision that health workers in the country will be given priority in receiving the flu vaccine.” South Africa has recorded two deaths and 1280 cases of COVID-19. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.