Medical workers test a patient for the novel coronavirus at a drive-thru testing facility in San Francisco. GENEVA - The World Health Organization (WHO) called for countries to test every suspected case of COVID-19, as the rest of the world registered more cases and deaths in the pandemic than China. "You cannot fight a fire blindfolded," WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told reporters in a virtual press conference from the UN agency's headquarters in Geneva. "In the past week, we have seen a rapid escalation of cases of COVID-19," he said, as the global death toll in the pandemic soared past 7,000. WATCH: WHO warns against hoarding More cases and deaths have now been reported in the rest of the world than in China, where the new coronavirus first surfaced in December, he added. The WHO chief warned that as cases are soaring "we have not seen an urgent enough escalation in testing, isolation and contact tracing, which is the backbone of the response." He hailed dramatic measures put in place by a range of governments, including the closing of schools and shops, pointing out that "social distancing measures can help to reduce transmission and enable health systems to cope." READ: How does the coronavirus test work? 4 questions answered Efforts to get people to wash their hands and sneeze into an elbow were also important tools to reduce transmission, he said. "But on their own, they are not enough to extinguish this pandemic," Tedros warned, stressing the need to break the chains of transmission. "To do that, you must test and isolate," he said, stressing that "we cannot stop this pandemic if we don't know who is infected." WATCH: Coronavirus in SA declared national disaster The WHO, he said, was urging countries to "Test, test, test. Test every suspected case." He hailed the surging production in tests to meet the global demand, and noted that the WHO itself had shipped nearly 1.5 million tests to 120 countries, to help those most in need. "WHO advises that all confirmed cases, even mild cases, should be isolated in health facilities, to prevent transmission and provide adequate care," Tedros said.