Health minister Zweli Mkhize is in the Free State. The province has reported its first coronavirus case. The minister is checking on screening processes. He's briefing the media on that as well as giving an update on national COVID-19 numbers. * Week-In-One articles examine the top stories of the week from all the angles you may have missed. Watch Week-in-One all weekend on DStv403. PARLIAMENT - Parliament is taking precautionary measures against the coronavirus. It has suspended its business indefinitely as of Wednesday but not before it convening a full plenary session to pass a budget-related bill. This means MPs will be breaking the 100-person gathering limit imposed by Cabinet on Sunday. WATCH: Ramaphosa meets with political leaders over COVID This is Parliament’s last week of business before the first term recess. It is cutting short its work, cancelling two of its plenary sessions, including a question and answer session, with the deputy president. The National Council of Provinces will be meeting at the Gauteng Provincial Legislature on Thursday to consider the intervention in the Tshwane municipality. It has cancelled all public meetings as part of its Taking Parliament to the People programme. MPs will still gather on Wednesday to deliberate on the Division of Revenue Bill, which allocates funding to all spheres of government. Unhappy about this decision, the DA says Parliament needs to find smarter ways of working in future. SUMMARY: Ministers announce COVID-19 counter measures DA interim leader, John Steenhuisen said, “other parliaments in the world use a system called pairing, where you sit out a number of members, these are the innovations that are going to be required. We need to use a lot of the technology that’s been installed across Parliament for remote meetings, or meetings to happen via the internet.” Parliament is now also closed to the public until further notice and plans are underway to reduce the number of staff in the precinct. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.