File: President Cyril Ramaphosa announced a nationwide lockdown. He says some certain categories of businesses can remain operational. CAPE TOWN - President Cyril Ramaphosa on Monday announced a countrywide lockdown, part of which only certain categories of businesses can remain open. According to this list, the following services will need to be maintained during the lockdown: Public and private organisations, their staff and service providers essential to the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity will need to continue to operate.  This includes municipalities, and the suppliers of logistics, feedstock and maintenance will be required to continue to operate and provide security of electricity supply. Public and private organisations, their staff and service providers essential to the security of supply of bulk and potable water and sanitation must continue to operate and provide vital water and sanitation services.  This includes municipalities and those involved in the supply of materials, chemicals and related equipment. We have extensively engaged with the ICT sector and are satisfied that connectivity will remain stable during this period. In this time industry collaboration will be critical to ensure that society remains connected and functional. The ICT sector including data centres, fibre optic providers, towers and antennae will need to operate at high capacity. The industry will collaborate and use multiple data sets to provide predictive insights into spread and impact dynamics of the crisis which will enable government and society’s ability to be proactive in measures that reduce the curve and social and economic impact of the spread. Social platforms will allow our people to remain socially included and these platforms remain critical to the dissemination of accurate information. However, our citizens are reminded that cybersecurity is of the utmost importance and to be vigilant to cybercriminals who will, during this time, try to exploit the public. 1. Food & essential products – related manufacturing and processing, and distribution In order to ensure that people remain well-nourished and apply high personal hygiene to combat the spread of COVID-19, the following operations will continue: Essential products include toilet paper, cleaners, sanitizers and disinfectants, personal hygiene products, bedding and clothing, and essential supplies for those taking care of the sick and in order for people to remain healthy. 2. Enabling Services To assist in the COVID-19 response, the following services are required to continue operations: 3. Work from Home The government encourages people to continue to remain productive and work from home. However, this must the basis that it does not require contact with people not residing in the home, and it does not interfere in any manner with the Covid-19 response. A detailed list will be made available in due course, other than the above, businesses will need to shut down during the lockdown. Source: Presidency