US President Donald Trump announced the United States would ban all travel from Europe for 30 days starting to stop the spread of the coronavirus outbreak. WASHINGTON - US President Donald Trump announced a 30-day ban on travellers from mainland Europe as the continent reeled from the rapid spread of a coronavirus pandemic that has emptied streets, shuttered shops and disrupted travel for millions. The edict came amid signs of a widening European crisis, as Italy clocked more than 2,300 new cases in 24 hours and infections in Spain jumped by a quarter to more than 2,100. READ: WHO labels coronavirus a pandemic Ireland, Albania, Belgium, Sweden and Bulgaria registered their first deaths on Wednesday, bringing Europe's total to 930, from more than 22,000 infections. "This is the most aggressive and comprehensive effort to confront a foreign virus in modern history," Trump said in a primetime television address from the Oval Office -- his latest attempt to counter criticism of his response so far. WATCH: Tracking coronavirus in SA, Africa and the world The president said the ban would come into effect from "midnight Friday" but would not affect travellers from Britain, which recently left the European Union, to Trump's great approval. Trump briefly caused alarm as he announced that the "tremendous amount of trade and cargo" from Europe would also be banned, forcing officials to clarify that the measures would apply only to humans, not goods or cargo. READ: Tom Hanks in hospital after testing positive for coronavirus The number of coronavirus disease cases across the globe has risen to more than 124,000 with 4,500 deaths, after a jump in fatalities particularly in Iran and Italy, according to an AFP tally. The World Health Organization designated the outbreak as a pandemic on Wednesday, warning that the spread and severity of the illness was due to "alarming levels of inaction." Johns Hopkins University's coronavirus tracker put the number of known US cases at around 1,300, with 36 dead.