Gauteng Cooperative Governance MEC Lebogang Maile has moved to clarify that the Tshwane council is not yet dissolved.Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Gauteng Cooperative Governance MEC Lebogang Maile has moved to clarify that the Tshwane council has not yet been dissolved. This follows Premier David Makhura's announcement on Thursday that the city would be placed under administration. Maile said the council will remain in place for the next 14 days until the National Council of Provinces and Minister of Cooperative Governance finalise the decision. READ: Chaos continues in Tshwane council "The number of administrative teams that are going to come in here will be determined by the type of skills we need. That's why we have a session to analyse what are the weaknesses and then there will be one person who will be a convener." The DA's mayoral candidate Randall Williams believes the MEC is jumping the gun. "The city is not yet under administration. Council has not yet been dissolved. So MEC Maile calling all the senior staff of the City to a meeting today is holy premature he does not have the power to do that yet." The City of Tshwane Metropolitan Municipality is holding a special council meeting on Tuesday and top of the agenda is the election of a mayor. Maile says the city is within its right to hold this meeting as they are still consulting with the National Council of Provinces over the exco's decision. READ: Tshwane council meeting collapses, again "They can elect the mayor, but it means that the mayor will be left with a few days. Once the decision is effective that mayor can only have it in his CV that he was a mayor for a few days but it doesn't matter really to us. Maybe it's a way of dealing with the pain, you never know, we deal with pain differently." Williams says Maile may just be a magician. "I don't know if he's got a crystal ball that he can predict what's going to happen in the future. So he's already saying that the NCOP is not going to overturn the decision of the provincial government. He's got absolutely no authority to speak on behalf of the NCOP." The DA is preparing court papers to interdict the municipality being dissolved, saying this is an ANC ploy to get its hands on the resources of the municipality through the back door.