Courtmaster Jeffrey Brooker cleans the center court at the Indian Wells Tennis Garden. The BNP Paribas Open was cancelled by the Riverside County Public Health Department, as county officials declared a public health emergency when a case of coronavirus (COVID-19) was confirmed in the area. LOS ANGELES - The ATP and WTA tennis tournament in Indian Wells, California, has been cancelled over concerns about the outbreak of the new coronavirus, making it the first major sporting event in the US to be scrubbed due to health concerns. The tournament, one of the biggest outside the four Grand Slams, was cancelled just days before it was due to begin. Officials said in a news release on Sunday that they opted to cancel after the health department of California's Riverside County declared a public health emergency for the Coachella Valley -- in the desert east of Los Angeles -- after a confirmed case of COVID-19 locally. READ: Paris half-marathon cancelled over COVID-19 fears No further details of the case were given. Days earlier, organisers had said they planned to go ahead with extra health measures in place such as hand sanitizing stations, beefed up cleaning protocols and gloves for ball kids, volunteers and food workers. The ATP and WTA had also issued virus-related guidelines, telling players not to accept items from fans to be autographed. READ: Organisers cancel Tokyo marathon for 38,000 runners over virus Even before the cancellation, the tournament -- which draws more than 400,000 fans each year -- had offered refunds to anyone who bought tickets but did not want to attend. Many of the players have already arrived in Indian Wells for the event with qualifying matches scheduled to start on Monday and the main draw set to kick off on Wednesday. "We are very disappointed that the tournament will not take place, but the health and safety of the local community, fans, players, volunteers, sponsors, employees, vendors, and everyone involved with the event is of paramount importance," said tournament director Tommy Haas. "We are prepared to hold the tournament on another date and will explore options," Haas added. The number of American coronavirus cases is now at over 500 and involves some 30 US states.