The universities of Johannesburg, Cape Town and Wits have all suspended classes. * Weekend-In-One articles examine the top stories of the week from all the angles you may have missed. Watch Week-in-One all weekend on DStv403. CAPE TOWN - Universities across the country are ramping up measures to curb the spread of COVID-19 on campuses. President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced a state of national disaster in response to the pandemic. They are putting various protocols in place, like suspending classes. SUMMARY: Ramaphosa announces COVID-19 controls Francesca Visagé is one of the hundreds of Stellenbosch University students who would've taken part in a graduation ceremony at the end of this month. March and April events have been cancelled as a safety precaution against COVID-19. Instead, graduates will receive their degrees in absentia, or they can take part in the December ceremonies. READ: Schools, some universities closed amid COVID-19 spread Francesca Visage, a Stellenbosch student, said, "I’m extremely disappointed, most of us has worked for years, we have put a lot into it. A lot of students are first-generation students, it’s not just their work that went into it, it’s also their family’s work into it and even if it’s just a small moment of recognition, it’s quite important in our lives.” The university has also cancelled classes and assessments. Stellenbosch University rector Wim De Villiers said, "employees, support staff, and research activities will still be on-going but individual arrangements need to be made with the various supervisors. In addition, we’re also strongly encouraging our students to go home, to vacate the residences.” At the University of Cape Town, a staff member has tested positive for COVID-19. READ: Second COVID-19 case at UCT Classes have been suspended, while events like graduation ceremonies have been cancelled until June and those living in residences have been asked to vacate. Phume Mbatha, a student at UCT said, “I have asthma, so for me this is a double concern because it’s not something I do take lightly so being told that I have to evacuate in 72 hours, not knowing the legal ramifications that the institution is having to face, but it was very inconvenient and I don’t know where they thought that I was supposed to get the money to travel.” The University of the Western Cape says it will have a virtual graduation ceremony, while classes will continue for now. In Gauteng, a student at the University of Witwatersrand has tested positive for COVID-19. This has led to a cancellation of classes and graduation ceremonies have been postponed. Several other institutions like the Universities of Pretoria and Johannesburg have also suspended classes. Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.