The HUAWEI Y7p is the first phone with Huawei’s new ecosystem, Huawei Mobile Services (HMS), to be launched in SA. A familiar face The HUAWEI Y7p is the first phone with Huawei’s new ecosystem, Huawei Mobile Services (HMS), to be launched in SA. This smartphone is run off Huawei’s EMUI 9.1, based on Android 9.1, so will be very familiar to Huawei fans and other Android users. Accessing your favourite apps Once you’ve purchased your HUAWEI Y7p, it’s really easy to transfer most of your favourite apps from your old device to your HUAWEI Y7p quickly and seamlessly via Huawei’s Phone Clone. Then there’s Huawei’s app distribution platform – the HUAWEI AppGallery. HUAWEI AppGallery is available in 170 countries, has 400 million monthly active users and features apps from 1.3 million developers around the world. You are able to get most of SA’s popular apps on this app store, including local apps such as Moya Messenger, Flappe by Travelstart, Snapscan, ABSA, Takealot, and News24. Whatsapp, social media applications, email apps, search engines and video streaming services are also available on your HUAWEI Y7p. Protection and privacy In terms of security, the HUAWEI AppGallery features a four-layer detection mechanism, as well as post-release app inspection and a mechanism for user feedback. Four-layer detection includes security vulnerability scanning; privacy check; malicious behaviour detection; and a manual, real-name security check to ensure apps are secure during the entire process. Huawei also warns you if a file is a security risk. What you can expect from the new HUAWEI Y7p The HUAWEI Y7p offers a rear triple-camera setup that includes a 48MP main camera for capturing frame-worthy moments in high resolution, an 8MP Super Wide Angle camera for scenic landscape shots and wide-angle video capture, and a 2MP Depth Assist Camera for breathtaking portraits. The HUAWEI Y7p’s Night Mode supports stabilisation for handheld shots taken with an exposure of up to six seconds. In addition, the phone’s Slow-mo Mode can get videos that play back at 1/16 of the actual speed. The HUAWEI Y7p is powered by Kirin 710F, which suits gamers, social media enthusiasts and music aficionados alike. The smartphone’s Face Unlock 2.0 lets you unlock your device within 0.4 seconds, even if you’re holding it at an unusual angle. The smartphone also features HUAWEI Histen 6.0 with 3D surround sound supportdelivering vibrant, crisp sounds for an immersive audio experience. The HUAWEI Y7p comes in beautiful Midnight Black and Aurora Blue - colours that create a holographic effect on the phone’s surface. The device is equipped with a 6.39-inch Punch FullView Display with an impressive screen-to-body ratio of 90 per cent and an HD+ resolution of 1560x720 for displaying fine detail with vivid clarity. The HUAWEI Y7p is available at operators and retailers at a RRP of just R3,499. The offer includes 50GB free cloud space for six months. Huawei is also offering a free unboxing service in 150 malls around the country, so you can get all the support you need to set up your HUAWEI Y7p. Huawei also has a 24/7 hotline – 086 086 1111.