File: The World Bank said it is critical to "recognise the extra burden on poor countries" least equipped in the struggle to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 virus. PARIS - With new tolls and key developments, here is the latest in the coronavirus crisis. More than 3,200 dead Across the world, 3,217 people have died from the virus. More than 94,000 have been infected in 81 countries and territories, according to AFP's latest toll based on official sources at 1200 GMT Wednesday. The main countries affected: mainland China (80,270 cases, 2,981 deaths), South Korea (5,621 cases, 32 deaths), Italy (2,502 cases, 79 deaths), Iran, (2,922 cases, 92 deaths). Countries and territories registering their first cases of infection since Tuesday: Argentina, Chile, Gibraltar and Poland. Aid package The World Bank unveils a $12-billion (R196-billion) aid package to help the world's poorest nations with medical equipment or health services. The US Federal Reserve slashes its key interest rate by a half point to mitigate the threat the virus poses to the world economy. Scramble for masks Germany and Russia ban the export of protective medical gear such as masks and gloves to ensure their health workers have enough to deal with the outbreak. France says authorities will requisition stocks of protective masks until May 31. In Italy, a top civil protection official says the country, which does not make face masks, is getting 800,000 of them from South Africa but needs at least 10 million more. Louvre reopens The Louvre in Paris, the world's most visited museum, reopens to the public after management took steps to allay fears over the coronavirus spread which staff cited for a two-day work stoppage. Rationing toilet paper Australia's biggest supermarket announces a limit on toilet paper purchases after a spate of panic buying. Football called off Local authorities in Turin call off the Italian Cup semi-final football clash between Juventus and AC Milan without setting a new date, adding to the list of cancelled sporting events.