Britain's Prince Harry and his wife Meghan Markle announced in January that they intended to quit royal life and "work to become financially independent". LONDON  - Prince Harry and his American wife Meghan posted their last message as working members of Britain's royal family before officially embarking on new careers without their "Royal Highness" styles. Harry and Meghan shocked Queen Elizabeth and the other Windsors in January by announcing plans to step back from their royal roles. A later deal brokered by the 93-year-old monarch means they will go their own way from April. IN PICTURES: Harry and Meghan wave royal life goodbye So from Wednesday, the couple, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, will be free to pursue new careers, earn their own money and spend most of their time in North America. "While you may not see us here, the work continues," the couple said in the last message to their more than 11 million followers on their sussexroyal Instagram page. "We look forward to reconnecting with you soon. You’ve been great! Until then, please take good care of yourselves, and of one another." As we can all feel, the world at this moment seems extraordinarily fragile. Yet we are confident that every human being has the potential and opportunity to make a difference—as seen now across the globe, in our families, our communities and those on the front line—together we can lift each other up to realise the fullness of that promise. What’s most important right now is the health and wellbeing of everyone across the globe and finding solutions for the many issues that have presented themselves as a result of this pandemic. As we all find the part we are to play in this global shift and changing of habits, we are focusing this new chapter to understand how we can best contribute. While you may not see us here, the work continues. Thank you to this community - for the support, the inspiration and the shared commitment to the good in the world. We look forward to reconnecting with you soon. You’ve been great! Until then, please take good care of yourselves, and of one another. Harry and Meghan A post shared by  The Duke and Duchess of Sussex (@sussexroyal) on Mar 30, 2020 at 9:17am PDT Harry, and Meghan, a former actress, married in a lavish ceremony in May 2018, a wedding which was heralded at the time as infusing a blast of Hollywood glamour and modernity into the monarchy, and making them one of the world's biggest celebrity couples. Their son Archie was born a year later, but by then relations with the media and with Harry's elder brother Prince William were becoming strained, and in January they announced plans to step back from their royal roles. READ: Trump says US won't pay Harry and Meghan's security It provoked a crisis, and in a subsequent deal thrashed out with the queen, her son and heir Prince Charles and William, it was agreed the couple would have to give up their royal jobs altogether. Their last public appearance came earlier this month when they joined other senior royals at the annual Commonwealth Day service in London. After that they returned to Canada where they had spent most of their time in the last four months, and a royal source confirmed they had now moved to the Los Angeles area.