Although it may seem easier to stick to buying, making and eating the same foods every day, this may actually be detrimental to your health. Think you’re keeping things simple and cost-effective by rotating the same five meals every week and eating the same thing at every lunch? Think again!  Although it may seem easier to stick to buying, making and eating the same foods every day, this may actually be detrimental to your health. Despite there being more than 20,000 known edible plants on our planet, three-quarters of our diets come from just 12 plant species and five animal species – when there are in actuality over 5,000 species of crops that we could be eating. According to Knorr’s Nielsen-commissioned study, Understanding the Eating Habits of the South African Population, the most commonly consumed vegetables in South Africa are tomatoes, onions and cabbage, followed by carrots. This is a sad reality, given South Africa’s abundant supply of nutritious vegetables and crops. Knorr’s report also revealed that the average South African eats two meals per day with plates made up of a far larger proportion of meat than vegetables. Consuming such an imbalanced and limited diet has serious implications, not only for our individual health, but also for our collective health as a nation. Research suggests that eating such a limited diet increases our chances of suffering from health issues such as Type 2 diabetes and heart disease. Aside from helping improve our general overall health, eating a nutritionally diverse diet also ensures we’re able to meet our body’s nutritional needs. No single food or food group has all the nutrients we need in the optimum amounts, which is why it is so important to consume a wide variety of different foods. The choices you make about what you eat really matter. Through our Food Matters partnership with Knorr, we hope to unpack practical ways to help you eat a more nutritious diets that include less meat and much more variety in the form of seasonal foods, more fruit and vegetables, legumes and wholegrains, and more healthy oils and plant-based foods. If you’re looking for more information on how to diversify your diet, catch Food Matters every Sunday at 19:55 on eNCA and on e.tv every Sunday! For more information on Knorr’s purpose click here. How to make a change to your plate today: Discover Better For You Recipes Here Sign up for eat-better recipes