Dressed in protective gear, an Italian funeral services employee in Bergamo province takes photos of the coffin of someone who has died and is being buried without their loved ones permitted to attend the cemetery due to quarantine restrictions. PARIS - Over a 24-hour period, in a world where a third of humanity is now under orders to stay home, AFP photographers have captured snapshots of daily life during the coronavirus pandemic. Life has shuddered to a halt in varying degrees, with the closure of bars and other non-essential businesses and school classes suspended, while gatherings are banned, transport is limited and beaches and parks now no-go zones. Here are photographs, taken from Monday to Tuesday, showing scenes playing out in countries around the globe, of deserted roads and city centres, lonely funerals and spontaneous concerts from balconies. The Champs-Elysees, Paris' legendary avenue, usually thronging with tourists and people taking a stroll, is deserted. Dressed in protective gear, an Italian funeral services employee in Bergamo province takes photos of the coffin of someone who has died and is being buried without their loved ones permitted to attend the cemetery due to quarantine restrictions. Brazilian graffiti artist Rafamon projects a work onto a large screen colourfully declaring:  "Vai Passar" or "It Will Pass". Thanks to an online pilates course, a Cypriot woman exercises at home, while her dog stretches too beside her. A jogger in Britain finds she has Greenwich Park in southeast London to herself. Israeli saxophonist Yarden Klayman plays for her neighbours in the city's Basel district, after having had to cancel her concert following a ban on non-essential travel. On the roof of his building, a Greek artist displays graffiti urging people to stay home and to wear a mask. A municipal worker uses a sprayer while disinfecting the popular Medina neighbourhood of Dakar. Palestinians pray in front of the entrance to the Al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem, Islam's third holiest site, after it was closed by the Waqf, the Muslim foundation that runs the compound. Cafes on usually busy streets of Hanoi have fallen silent. In the normally buzzing bar and restaurant district of Lan Kwai Fong, Hong Kong singer and Elvis impersonator Kwok Lam-sang is all alone, guitar slung across his shoulder The Champs-Elysees, Paris' legendary avenue, usually thronging with tourists and people taking a stroll, is deserted. Dressed in protective gear, an Italian funeral services employee in Bergamo province takes photos of the coffin of someone who has died and is being buried without their loved ones permitted to attend the cemetery due to quarantine restrictions. Brazilian graffiti artist Rafamon projects a work onto a large screen colourfully declaring:  "Vai Passar" or "It Will Pass". Thanks to an online pilates course, a Cypriot woman exercises at home, while her dog stretches too beside her. A jogger in Britain finds she has Greenwich Park in southeast London to herself. Israeli saxophonist Yarden Klayman plays for her neighbours in the city's Basel district, after having had to cancel her concert following a ban on non-essential travel. On the roof of his building, a Greek artist displays graffiti urging people to stay home and to wear a mask. A municipal worker uses a sprayer while disinfecting the popular Medina neighbourhood of Dakar. Palestinians pray in front of the entrance to the Al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem, Islam's third holiest site, after it was closed by the Waqf, the Muslim foundation that runs the compound. Cafes on usually busy streets of Hanoi have fallen silent. In the normally buzzing bar and restaurant district of Lan Kwai Fong, Hong Kong singer and Elvis impersonator Kwok Lam-sang is all alone, guitar slung across his shoulder The Champs-Elysees, Paris' legendary avenue, usually thronging with tourists and people taking a stroll, is deserted. Dressed in protective gear, an Italian funeral services employee in Bergamo province takes photos of the coffin of someone who has died and is being buried without their loved ones permitted to attend the cemetery due to quarantine restrictions.