Pearl Thusi attends the 2018 Global Citizen Festival: Be The Generation in Central Park on September 29, 2018 in New York City. JOHANNESBURG - American actress Gabrielle Union praised Queen Sono star Pearl Thusi in a lengthy heartfelt post on Instagram. Union described her first encounter with Thusi in Barcelona and said the local actress is a superstar. "Today’s #WCW is the talented and captivating Pearl Thusi (@pearlthusi). "I met Pearl randomly in a bar in Barcelona while watching the World Cup, right after watching her Netflix movie, Catching Feelings... and I completely fanned out! She is the kind of woman that's a superstar for all the right reasons", said Union. IN PICTURES: Local stars attend Queen Sono premiere in Joburg She went on to say that she was inspired by Thusi and all the work she has done. "I'm so inspired by all the work she does. From her immense talent to her groundbreaking roles to her hairline to raising her 2 daughters. "Just, WOW. Let us lift her up in the light of goodness and hold her there", she added. Queen Sono, Netflix's first original African series is available on the streaming platform. Today’s #WCW is the talented and captivating Pearl Thusi (@pearlthusi). I met Pearl randomly in a bar in Barcelona while watching the World Cup, right after watching her Netflix movie, Catching Feelings... and I completely fanned out! She is the kind of woman that's a superstar for all the right reasons. She is an entrepreneur, philanthropist, friend, mother and more. She has her own hair care line called Black Pearl Hair… and launched the first ever MAC Collaboration in Africa EVER. Her project Queen Sono is Netflix’s first African original… before her they had never done anything script to screen on the continent! And her movie Catch Feelings was their first African movie ever licensed. Her passion for education, women, kids, and fighting HIV has lead her to some incredible work…. helping Global Citizen, many other organizations, and starting her own, Black halo, to focus on helping rape victims. To continue her philanthropic efforts, she just started working with Nkosi’s Haven - a foundation run in  honor of Nkosi Johnson, the longest surviving child born with HIV at his time of passing. There aren’t even enough characters available for me to describe everything this woman has done for the world and accomplished!  She’s the kind of woman to pop up at my birthday dinner at my favorite Mexican spot when I thought she was out of the country. I'm so inspired by all the work she does. From her immense talent to her groundbreaking roles to her hairline to raising her 2 daughters. Just, WOW. Let us lift her up in the light of goodness and hold her there. A post shared by  Gabrielle Union-Wade (@gabunion) on Mar 4, 2020 at 11:06am PST