 • Editor’s note: Livestream above courtesy DStv 403. You can also watch it on DStv Now. JOHANNESBURG - Gauteng premier David Makhura says service delivery has ground to a halt in Tshwane and his government won't be threatened into doing nothing. “The current uncertainty, instability, inaction, and collapse of service delivery must be confronted fearlessly and stopped in its tracks. "And it doesn't matter what threats are being made about going to court,” he said on Thursday. READ: Tshwane placed under administration The Gauteng government placed the City of Tshwane under administration. Tshwane doesn't have a mayor, mayoral committee or city manager. The DA believes the decision was taken irregularly and is unwarranted. The party will challenge it in court. WATCH: Tshwane dissolved due to a cocktail of problems: Maepa “We want it reviewed and we want it set aside before there is an election of any kind. We want the current group of councillors in place,” said the DA's provincial chairperson, Mike Moriarty. Makhura says they are ready to defend their decision. READ: Steenhuisen in Tshwane for damage control “We can't sit back and be threatened with court action as if what we are doing is unlawful. We will meet them in court. I want to say to them, we will meet in court. We are taking this decision in the best interests of the residents of Tshwane,” he said. The ANC believes the decision will stand, and is preparing itself for elections. The Gauteng premier says his decision to place Tshwane under administration is not the ANC hijacking control of the city. He says it's the party's response to its total collapse. David Makhura and Cooperative Governance MEC Lebogang Maile have announced that Tshwane’s council will be dissolved. And a team of administrators will be sent in to restore service delivery. Courtesy #DStv403 A team of administrators will be sent in to restore service delivery in Tshwane. This after Gauteng Premier David Makhura dissolved the council earlier on Wednesday and placed the municipality under administration. The party's provincial chairperson, Mike Moriarty joins us in studio now to discuss this further. Courtesy #DStv403