PRETORIA - The South African Police Service and the National Defence Force will be deployed from midnight on Thursday to support and enforce the national lockdown. President Cyril Ramaphosa declared a national lockdown to be enforced for 21 days to combat the spread of the novel coronavirus, COVID-19. The SAPS and SANDF will be helping to ensure compliance with the restriction of movement measures to be implemented according to the National State of Disaster and lockdown. COVID-19: Ramaphosa calls for National Day of Prayer The president addressed the SAPS and called upon the men and women serving to be supportive, assist, guide and lead the way for the public. "I send you off now to go and be amongst our people, I send you to conduct service amongst our people and shower our people with guidance, advice and leadership right now in the Republic of South Africa."  President Cyril Ramaphosa is addressing SANDF members ahead of their deployment. They are live at the Doornkop Army Base in Soweto. #21dayLockdown. #StayHomeSA Courtesy #DStv403 #SATonight The president called the evening, the most important calling of the SANDF's mission in his address to the members of the defence force. He acknowledged the unprecedented nature of the lockdown and said the soldiers should be a force of assurance, not of might. Ramaphosa called the directive of the army, Mission Save Lives. "This is not a moment of skop and donner," he said while reminding the SANDF to be respectful of the people of South Africa. The president said he expects people to be compliant with the regulations of the lockdown. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.