New measures coming into effect at bars and restaurants. From Monday to Saturday, they won't be allowed to sell booze after 6pm. Courtesy #DStv403 * Week-In-One articles examine the top stories of the week from all the angles you may have missed. Watch Week-in-One all weekend on DStv403. CAPE TOWN - A COVID-19 crisis has hit the Cape wine industry. A tourist, who went on an extended wine tour this month, has tested positive for the virus. All the wine estates he visited were informed last Saturday some have shut their hospitality operations but the many doors are still open to tourists. SUMMARY: Ramaphosa announces COVID-19 controls Delheim Estate closed its hospitality section yesterday after the wine farm was informed that one of its visitors tested positively for COVID-19. Five staff members who had contact with the Dutch tourist are in self-isolation. The man was part of a tour group from the Dutch Wine Academy. They visited more than 20 wine estates from the Southern Peninsula to the Boland and Hermanus, between the 3rd and 13th of March. Maryna Calow from Wines of South Africa said, "the wine farms who were visited has been informed that there was one positive test within this group and it is up to each farm and producer how they will go ahead given the measures that  had been in place on the facility. Another well-known estate in Stellenbosch, Tokara, has closed its hospitality operations following the news. Staff members who were working during the group’s visit are in self-isolation. Steenberg Estate in the Southern Peninsula has closed its tasting room and restaurant. Two employees are being tested for COVID-19. While the group did not go to the Spier Estate, the annual Harvest of the Arts festival has been postponed indefinitely. Wine producers rely heavily on tourism and in some cases up to 50 percent of a producer's income is from cellar sales. Calow said, "several of our international shows have been postponed or canceled which has already affected our industry quite severely as these are opportunities for our agents and importers to secure our future imports and deals however this is not a situation that is unique to South Africa and we hope that we can minimize the impact on our industry. Calow urged all infected people to inform public places they've visited so adequate measures can be taken. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.