The bloated public sector wage bill and its proposed slashing wasn't on the agenda of Nedlac's monthly meeting today. Cosatu feels unions weren't engaged timeously before the budget speech. Finance Minister Tito Mboweni made the announcement last Wednesday that R160-billion will be cut from the State's wage bill. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - The bloated public sector wage bill and its proposed slashing wasn't on the agenda of the National Economic Development and Labour Council’s monthly meeting on Monday. Trade union federation Cosatu feels unions weren’t engaged timeously before the budget speech. Finance Minister Tito Mboweni made the announcement last Wednesday that R160-billion will be cut from the State's wage bill. It was agreed at the Nedlac meeting that the Bargaining Council would be the appropriate platform to tackle it. Cosatu says this latest proposal by government was sprung on them on the eve of last week’s budget speech and they are still waiting for it to be formally tabled. “The issue here is about not complying with an existing argument that makes things muddy," said Cosatu General Security Bheki Ntshalintshali. "The mere fact that government has all the time to talk about these things, but on the eve of this thing, they are raising this thing. We can’t agree on that one.” WATCH: Mboweni grilled on public sector wage bill Public Servants Association of South Africa President Lufuno Mulaudzi says if labour and government can sit down and talk at the bargaining council they will find a way. However, Mulaudzi says the interests of their members should not be compromised. Meanwhile, Deputy Finance Minister David Masondo is unwavering in acknowledging that the cost of providing public service is on the rise and unaffordable. “The things that are driving our ability, are making it difficult for us to provide public service on a continuous basis, of course, is the wage bill, the debt service cost. In the next three years the debt service cost, the interest payment that we pay on our public debt is going to be 778 billion,” Masondo said. “The wage bill is one of the cost drivers for our ability to run the public service.” As government and labour lock horns over the slashing of the public wage bill, the most likely casualty is the already ailing South African economy.