 JOHANNESBURG - Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula says a message has been sent to the army to refrain from using excessive force. She says at the same time there are instances where South Africans have been provocative. READ: Public warned not to taunt SANDF This as the army continues to be on the ground in support of the South African police service. Social media has been flooded with videos showing soldiers and police using excessive force on members of the public. In some of the videos, people are hit and kicked. In others, they're forced to do grass hops and roll in mud, allegedly for contravening the lockdown. READ: Ramaphosa wishes SAPS, SANDF members well before lockdown Soldiers are enforcing the lockdown imposed by President Cyril Ramaphosa. These tough rules were put in place to curb the spread of COVID-19. Human Rights Watch's director for Southern Africa Dewa Mavhinga called for an independent probe into the alleged military brutality. "It is important that there be an independent investigation into reported incidents with appropriate punishment to the soldiers who committed the abuses," he told AFP. READ: SANDF call on reserve force to assist COVID-19 fight Shenilla Mohamed, executive director of Amnesty International in South Africa said "while it is urgent and important to ensure that people adhere to the lockdown, simply resorting to force will hardly achieve anything". "Hurting or causing injury by using force will only place more strain on the already overburdened medical services". - Additional reporting AFP  Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.