Why being informed about insurance is imperative Most of us are eternal optimists – we hope to lead a trouble-free life, and we don’t usually go around courting disaster. But insurers tend to know better. They know that, well, stuff happens, and that we just can’t predict what tomorrow will bring. And they also know that when trouble comes calling, it’s so much better if you’re prepared. We house our most precious people and possessions in our homes – our family and a lifetime’s worth of belongings we love. And these all need protecting. But the first priority when applying for a bond is putting homeowners cover in place. And, while banks usually insist on – and might automatically provide you with – some sort of protection for your home (and their asset), it helps to shop around so that you get the cover you need. Having said that, make sure you don’t do dual insurance – check your bond statement to make sure you’re not paying twice. Homeowners cover won’t protect your belongings and beloveds – there are other insurance products for that – but it will safeguard the physical structure of your home: the walls, roof, and fixtures such as fitted carpets, built-in cupboards, gate and gate motor, and light fittings. It usually also covers garages, domestic quarters, outside laundries, greenhouses, and swimming pools. But there’s so much confusion out there when picking a policy that it helps to know your excesses from your exclusions, your premiums from your payouts. Here’s some insider wisdom on home insurance: 1. Why you need homeowners cover 2. The costs of cover 3. Avoid under-insuring your home 4. What’s not covered? 5. Check in on your policy each year BetterSure Financial Consultants CEO Carl Coetzee believes that “you need to make a truly informed decision when it comes to insurance. Look out for hidden provisos, disclaimers and exclusions. Ask the hard questions now, so that you don’t end up under-insured or with a rejected claim when you most need the funds. Because every bit better your home insurance is, ultimately prevents your life from getting that much worse.” Shop around for cover that works for you. BetterSure’s Homeowners Cover (HOC), for example, offers you fabulous features like Personal Assist – a dedicated person to address all your concerns – and Legal Assist – unlimited telephonic advice from a team of top-rate attorneys. They’ll also provide DIY help, geyser inspections and third-party cover. Whatever cover you choose, make sure your policy protects you for the better, when life takes a turn for the worst!