The ANC National Working Committee is urging its branches to assist health workers through outreach programmes and door-to-door work. But this is a move some believe could be an election campaign. #COVID19SouthAfrica #DStv403 #FirstTake PRETORIA - In a bid to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus the ANC will postpone all its conferences by at least three months but ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa admits this is not enough to stem the spread. He said the public transport system and informal settlements pose a nightmare in efforts to contain coronavirus. READ: SA Council of Churches to meet over COVID-19 concerns Ramaphosa will meet the country's religious leaders on Thursday to get their buy-in after government's decision to prohibit gatherings of more than a hundred people.
One of the most important events in the Christian calendar, Easter, is only weeks away. Congregants usually fill up the churches.f Some even undertaking pilgrimages to gather and worship. With the unprecedented threat posed by the coronavirus, Ramaphosa said nothing can be left to chance.
Ramaphosa said, "I would like all of us South Africans to know that we are going through a period we've never gone through before in the history our democracy…it's going to be a testing period for all of us."
Ramaphosa addressed the problem of South Africans who use already overcrowded trains, buses and taxis and those who stay in informal settlements. READ: The global spread of the new coronavirus: Where is it? He said, "this is an area where we could face enormous challenges. The national command council is going to look very closely at how we address the challenge that will come when the outbreak goes to a number of other places where many of our people leave or are transported." All ANC meetings, including the elective conferences of its leagues, as well as the big mid-term policy review conference called the national general council, have been suspended.
"The extended NWC agreed to comply with the prohibition that was announced yesterday, that we should not have meetings of more than one hundred people," Ramaphosa said. Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp.