File: Questions are still being asked about Icasa's reasons for amending the current Sports Broadcast Regulations. JOHANNESBURG - The process to amend the current Sports Broadcasting Regulations does not look like it will end soon. The Draft Regulations were published in 2018 with public hearings held in May last year. Communications Regulator Icasa was in Parliament to update the Communications and Sports Portfolio Committees.
Questions are still being asked about Icasa's reasons for amending the current Sports Broadcast Regulations. Notably, the draft regulations call for sports rights to be held on a non-exclusive basis, which threatens the dominance enjoyed by pay television.
Violet Molete, from Icasa, said, "if there's Paralympics, World Cup and Paralympics, where there is a national team, we are saying free-to-air broadcasters should be able, people of South Africa should be able to see that event."
Doubts remain about how this will be achieved. READ: Icasa wants to open up pay TV market Many sport federations generate income from their agreements with pay-TV. At the same time, sports rights have become too expensive for free-to-air services.
Phumzile van Damme, DA representative said, "If there is bidding for the Olympics, do you say to Multichoice don't bid'? Because it's not up to Icasa to decide what the price of those rights will be." "The Olympics is not something that's sold by a South Africa company, it's sold by an international company, and they will take money from whoever has the deepest pockets. So what I'm saying here is that you're selling the public dreams because it's not going to happen," she said.
Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams says legislation should be in place to provide an ideal environment for free-to-air channels to operate.
The minister said, "as policymakers and lawmakers we've got to take it into consideration that and our responsibility as the people who represent the public say what must we put to enable the SABC to have to be able to broadcast in the interest of the public?' "As public representatives, we shouldn't be want to be seen to be favouring the few against the majority."
Icasa anticipates another round of public hearings but still hopes to have the process finalised before the end of the year.