The bond origination industry has put billions of rands back into homebuyers’ pockets since it started up in SA almost 20 years ago. SPONSORED - The bond origination industry has put billions of rands back into homebuyers’ pockets since it started up in SA almost 20 years ago. And it still continues to cut down the cost of homeownership, helping hundreds of thousands of people find a home of their own. Bond origination was a major disruptor in the real estate industry when it first landed on our shores, and it’s proved to be a true consumer champion. Rudi Botha, CEO of the BetterLife Group, remembers those early days: ‘Not only did we take the hassle out of applying for a home loan and reduce the time it takes to be approved, but we also gave buyers a way to make sure they were offered the most favourable loan package and interest rate.’ Since then, BetterBond has helped homeowners save billions. In an average year, BetterBond secures about R35 billion worth of new home loans. And by negotiating with multiple banks for the best deals, an interest rate difference of just 0.25% on those loans alone is worth around R1.5 billion. Factor in the rate concessions we negotiate that are more than 0.25%, and you get a clear sense of the savings we’ve achieved over the years. To break it down into more relatable figures, an interest rate difference of just 0.5% on a R1 million home loan could save the buyer about R80 000 over a 20-year bond term. If you want to see what this could save you click here But that’s just one of the reasons you should be making use of a bond originator. Here are six more seriously ‘wow’ reasons to start your homebuying journey with us: And – it gets even better! – we do all this without charging you a cent. You’ll pay the exact same bank fees, whether you go it alone or with us. Because we’re doing the admin for the banks that they would have had to do themselves, so they simply pay us a once-off fee. Yet another great reason to start your journey with us. To calculate how much you can potentially save on your home loan go to https://www.betterbond.co.za/#better-rate_enca_web  