The Minister for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (CoGTA) Nkosazana  Dlamini-Zuma will brief the media on the spread of the coronavirus. Government has announced several regulations to curb the spread of the coronavirus. * Week-In-One articles examine the top stories of the week from all the angles you may have missed. Watch Week-in-One all weekend on DStv403. PRETORIA - Initiation season might be suspended this year - if traditional leaders have their way. Contralesa says the nation must adhere to all measures for containing the Covid-19 pandemic. SUMMARY:  Ramaphosa announces COVID-19 controls Initiation is a time-honoured cultural practice but the current season seems on the line. Ikosi Sipho Mahlangu, the chair of Contralesa said, “we will call on traditional leaders to look at if we can suspend initiation this year, COVID 19 spreads more when it’s cold and initiation happens in winter.” Contralesa says people must adhere to the containment measures outlined by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Sunday.
These include a ban on public gatherings of more than 100 people. Mahlangu said, “when you have funerals let it be family and few people, even for weddings let it few people and avoid the big events on the weekends.” SUMMARY: Ministers announce COVID-19 counter measures  The cultural and religious commission says sanity must prevail. Professor David Mosoma from the CRL Commission said, “to all our religious leaders, these are critical moments which require an innovative approach and if we don’t do that we will perish like fools.” There’s a strong emphasis on washing our hands and sanitising them but the big question is, what about people living in water-scarce parts of South Africa. Sputnik Ratau from the Water and Sanitation Department said, “we know areas that have not been served we know there are areas hit by drought and those are areas that we will drive our attention." The department says it has to reprioritise funds to ensure that a relief programme is provided as soon as possible. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.