Alongside Knorr, we believe that wholesome, nutritious food should be accessible to all. That’s why we’re joining Knorr on a journey to help fix South Africa’s broken food system and change the Plate of the Nation. Despite living in a country fortunate enough to be filled with a variety of nutritious crops, our population consumes a dangerously limited diet. This lack of dietary diversity has resulted in South Africa being deemed the unhealthiest country in the world according to the Indigo Wellness Index. So, what exactly is wrong with South Africa’s plate? According to Knorr’s Plate of The Nation report, compiled by Nielsen, the current South African plate is composed of a disproportionately large amount of meat and starch, with very few vegetables. Our current plate consists of 41% starch and 26% meat, with only 13% vegetables, with the rest composed of fats and oils, dairy and legumes. The report also showed that although 82% of South Africans believe it is now easier to find healthy food than it was five years ago, only 52% think healthy food is affordable. Alongside Knorr, we believe that wholesome, nutritious food should be accessible to all. That’s why we’re joining Knorr on a journey to help fix South Africa’s broken food system and change the Plate of the Nation. Through our Food Matters partnership with Knorr, we hope to make healthy eating more accessible by providing simple practical changes to help South Africans create healthier plates. Through the show, we hope to encourage more South Africans to eat better by championing dietary diversity, more plant-based eating, and sustainable sourcing of healthy ingredients. Our expert health and nutrition guides featured on the show will provide all the recipes, tips and expert advice you need to help you lead a healthier life! It all starts with a Little Big Difference, and by Choosing To Eat Better. Tune in this week to watch Uveka Rangappa and our expert guide unpack the all the facts regarding the current health of the nation, along with the small changes YOU can make to your plate to help reshape the collective health of the nation. It all starts with your plate! For more information on Knorr’s purpose click here. How to make a change to your plate today: Discover Better For You Recipes Here Sign up for eat-better recipes