The world's biggest stars are fighting the boredom of the coronavirus quarantine. BERLIN - They're used to full social calendars, the gaze of adoring fans and being surrounded by crowds -- but in these days of corona lockdown, celebrities are shut indoors just like the rest of us. Here's a look at how the world's biggest stars are fighting the boredom. - Boateng's toilet roll kicks - Bundesliga footballer Jerome Boateng has started a trend by doing kick-ups with a toilet roll -- an item that has become a symbol of the coronavirus crisis in many countries thanks to shortages caused by stockpiling. In a video on Instagram, the Bayern Munich defender manages an impressive 20 kicks before the makeshift football finally tumbles to the floor. Elsewhere, England footballer James Milner shared a tongue-in-cheek film of himself rationing tea bags, setting them out into neat piles on his kitchen table, and preparing to cut his lawn by measuring the grass with a ruler. Should be listening to the CL anthem these days, instead juggling some toilet paper rolls 🧻 okay, challenge accepted 🤷🏽‍♂️😂 I NOMINATE @da_27 @leroysane19 @princeboateng @chilliams23 @kingarturo23oficial @jamesrodriguez10 A post shared by  Jérôme Boateng (@jeromeboateng) on Mar 17, 2020 at 11:26am PDT - The Terminator feeds his mini pony - Former California governor and "Terminator" actor Arnold Schwarzenegger set Twitter alight with a video urging people to stay home and listen to the experts, while casually feeding carrots to his mini poney Whiskey and donkey Lulu from his kitchen table. ‪Stay at home as much as possible. Listen to the experts, ignore the morons (foreheads). We will get through this together.‬ A post shared by  Arnold Schwarzenegger (@schwarzenegger) on Mar 15, 2020 at 7:57pm PDT - Ellen Degeneres tries a puzzle - US talk show host Ellen de Generes tried her hand at a 4,000-piece jigsaw puzzle, sharing her progress on Instagram before admitting it was too taxing. "So much for that plan," she wrote, before posting a picture of herself relaxing on the couch with her dogs. #Repost @theellenshow  So much for that plan. • • • • • #EllenDeGeneres #Ellen #EllenShow #EDbyEllen #EllenTube #Ellen17 #TheEllenShow A post shared by  Ellen DeGeneres FC (@ellendegeneres_fc) on Mar 16, 2020 at 7:18pm PDT - Robbie Williams: distant lover - British singer Robbie Williams is keeping a safe distance from wife Ayda Field after returning from a trip to Australia. In a video called "A social distancing love story", Ayda re-enacts the world's most romantic balcony scene while Robbie looks on from below. "Romeo, Romeo wherefore art thou?" she asks dramatically. "Down here, Juliet. I'm right here," he replies with a wave. A Social Distancing Love Story ❤️ #socialdistancing #selfquarantine #modernlove @robbiewilliams A post shared by  Ayda Field Williams (@aydafieldwilliams) on Mar 15, 2020 at 10:48pm PDT - J.Lo's wardrobe change - Singer and actress Jennifer Lopez joined Tik Tok's "flip the switch" clothes-swapping craze, snapping herself in a suit and shades while her fiance Alex Rodriguez strikes a pose in one of her legendary figure-hugging dresses. Elsewhere on Tik Tok, former "Friends" star Courtney Cox shows off her dance moves under the hashtag "bored". Late night Tiktoks💯💯 @jlo . Follow me at AROD13!!! A post shared by  Alex Rodriguez (@arod) on Mar 8, 2020 at 8:27pm PDT - Pink and Serena: mums in action - US singer Pink shared a handwritten schedule to keep her daughter Willow and son Jameson entertained during the day, including time alloted for yoga, walks and chores -- and a later bedtime if the kids "don't fight". Also on Instagram, tennis star Serena Williams says she plans to spend "the next six weeks in solitude. Being a wife. Being a mom." She also plans to make time for face masks and make-up tutorials. Part one! A post shared by  P!NK (@pink) on Mar 16, 2020 at 2:53pm PDT - Lizzo meditates - In one of the more unusual videos, US singer Lizzo posted a 30-minute meditation session on Instagram, complete with a floaty flute recital, healing crystals and an ocean sound machine. "We're going to take all of this fear and transmute it into love," she said. A meditation and mantra to promote healing during this global crisis. Use at your own pace. Love you! A post shared by  Lizzo (@lizzobeeating) on Mar 13, 2020 at 10:42am PDT