Anti-apartheid struggle icon and human rights lawyer George Bizos has died at the age of 92. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG -  Former apartheid struggle stalwart and human rights lawyer George Bizos has died at the age of 92. Tributes were immediately forthcoming from political figures, civil societies and South Africans' whose lives he touched. The Bizos family, the Legal Resources Centre, the George Bizos Saheti Scholarship and Bursary Fund released a public statement expressing their sorrow at the passing of Bizos. He died, according to his family, on Wednesday afternoon, at home of natural causes. "The LRC salutes George who made an enormous contribution to the ongoing work of the centre." Wits University released a statement, mourning the loss of the man, saying, "he spent his life-time fighting against apartheid and its injustices. We remember him for his intellectual and legal prowess, for his political activism and for the instrumental role that he played in securing the freedom of the people of South Africa." Anti-apartheid activist and human rights lawyer George Bizos has died at the age of 92. The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation's Neeshan Balton spoke on Bizos' legacy. Courtesy of #DStv403 It is with profound sadness that we confirm the passing of our colleague, friend and mentor, George Bizos. #RIPGeorgeBizos pic.twitter.com/QrFJivqb6p The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation is saddened by the news that veteran human rights lawyer George Bizos has passed away 💔
Lala ngoxolo #GeorgeBizos pic.twitter.com/oYJKgM0ViV Equal Education and @EElawcentre are deeply saddened by the passing of George Bizos. He was a valiant defender of human rights to whom much is owed. He will remain a leading light for generations of young lawyers and human rights activists in our country. Sad to hear the news of the passing of George Bizos. An advocate and champion for human rights, as well as a giant of the struggle for freedom in South Africa. A life of activism and service well lived. My sincerest condolences to his family. #RIPGeorgeBizos EFF Passes Condolences on The Passing of George Bizos pic.twitter.com/nf84bI698S