The fate of Gauteng Health MEC Bandile Masuku hangs in the balance this weekend when the ANC in the province meets. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - The fate of Gauteng Health MEC Bandile Masuku hangs in the balance this weekend when the ANC in the province meets. The party will consider a report by the Provincial Integrity Commission which found Masuku failed to practice adequate oversight of the PPE contracts being awarded by his department. This relates to a R125-million tender given to the husband of presidential spokesperson, Khusela Diko. READ: Bandile Masuku probe 'complete', report to be presented to PEC But the MEC plans to launch a fightback. Masuku has already written a letter to the commission objecting to its findings.
The report found that Masuku did not influence the tender or financially benefit from it. READ: ANC to decide Diko and Masuku's fate But it's the question of oversight of PPE tenders that is unresolved. One political analyst says the MEC's letter disputing the Integrity Commission's report shouldn't come as a surprise.
"It will always be subject to internal politics of the party," said Ongama Mtimka. READ: Masuku maintains his innocence "Both in terms of the responses to its work but equally in terms of executing its work. The comrades who are in charge of it, also have vested interests in developments of the party." Mtimka says despite this, the Commission is playing an important role. "It's an important structure in the body politic of the ANC. Especially in responding to public pressure. And if you look at the where is the loss of support of the party, it's around the perceptions that, that it allows or in fact, it creates the political framework for corruption in the country." The Gauteng premier, who is also ANC chairperson, says he hopes the meeting will send a clear message. READ: Diko, Masuku to be subjected to Integrity Committee "I am looking forward to that meeting of the ANC where the governing party of this province will be able to make decisions," said Premier David Makhura. "[We] will be able to show that the ANC is very consistent in how it deals with issues of malfeasance and corruption."
If Masuku is unhappy with the PEC decision, he can challenge it in the party's national structures.