The party said the debate about race and addressing the legacy of apartheid was robust and constructive. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - The Democratic Alliance is denying it's purging black leaders and progressive members. It follows the resignation of at least five key black leaders from the party, and disciplinary charges being laid against four others. The party said the debate about race and addressing the legacy of apartheid was robust and constructive. READ: DA drops race from redress policy The conference rejected the concept of race but recognised racism, and resolved that redress should not "prejudice minorities".
The DA says all of its members are free to raise alternative views and challenge the prevailing direction of the party regardless of their race.  
DA spokesperson Solly Malatsi said, "every member of the Democratic Alliance enjoys the same equal rights as any other member of the Democratics. Whether they are black, white, coloured or Indian." The party denies purging its members and says disciplinary charges against others are not meant to intimidate them.  
Malatsi said, "it would be very difficult in an organisation of due process like the DA, in an FLC that is led by Glynnis Breytenbach and Werner Horn, to argue that somehow those individuals do not have the independence and the professional ethics required of them to act fairly to everyone, to act impartially." READ: Msimanga 'shaken' by latest developments in the DA His comments contradict the views of DA MP Phumzile van Damme, who learnt of the charges she faces in the media but she says this won't make her leave the party. One analyst believes the DA's position on race may cost it black votes and would be difficult to implement.  
Professor Dirk Kotze said, "it's a very subtle and sophisticated approach that is now propagated. And that is going to be very difficult to implement as a general policy across the board. And how to do that, how to make it fair, and how to be convincing, especially to the black supporters of the DA, that's going to be an uphill struggle." The party's federal chairperson Helen Zille will reveal the new policies and nature of the discussions, on Monday. The DA conference rejected the concept of race but recognised racism, and resolved that redress should not prejudice minorities. Courtesy of #DStv403