Government is stressing that moving to Level 1 is not a licence to become reckless. Political analyst Karima Brown discusses this. Courtesy #DStv403  JOHANNESBURG - South Africa's COVID-19 infections have been declining consistently during the past six weeks. This is according to the Coronavirus Command Council led by Cooperative Governance Minister, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. READ: South Africa to move to Lockdown Level 1 She's been expanding on lockdown regulations following President Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement that the country would be moving to Level 1 from midnight on Sunday. But Dlamini-Zuma warned it’s not a licence to become reckless. READ: 67 more COVID-19 deaths recorded in SA A total of 15,772 people have died and over 650,000 have been infected with the coronavirus. Dlamini-Zuma provided the following details: Curfew People will not be allowed outside their homes between 00:01-04:00. People who have been given permission by a cabinet member, have a permit or are attending to a security or medical emergency are exempted. Public spaces A person must wear a face mask in a public place and may not be allowed into a public building, place or premises without a face mask, nor use public transport without a mask. A person undergoing vigorous exercise in a public place is exempted from this requirement. Gatherings Funerals are allowed 100 attendees or less, provided that not more than 50 percent of the venue's capacity is used and social distancing measures are followed. At all gatherings, people must wear a face mask and adhere to social distancing measures. An owner or operator of any indoor or outdoor facility where gatherings are held must display the certificate of occupancy which sets out the maximum number of persons the facility may hold. Gatherings at faith-based institutions, social events, political events, conferences and traditional council meetings are limited to 250 persons or less in case of an indoor gathering and 500 persons or less in case of an outdoor gathering. Gatherings at a workplace for work purposes are allowed. Recreational gatherings including those at cinemas, theatres, concerts and live performances are allowed and limited to 250 people for an indoor gathering and 500 people for outdoor gatherings. No more than 50 percent of an indoor venue's capacity may be used. Gatherings at casinos, gyms, fitness centres and swimming pools are limited to not more than 50 percent of the capacity of the venue, with persons observing a distance of least one and a half metres from each other. Gatherings at sports grounds and fields and beaches and public parks are allowed, subject to regulations. Large crowds pose a greater risk of coronavirus transmission, so it is still necessary to limit the size of gatherings under Level 1 to prevent a spike in new infections. pic.twitter.com/749PuiEZ2x Hospitality Restaurants must adhere to social distancing measures as issued by the relevant minister. Bars, taverns, shebeens and similar establishments must limit guests to not more than 50 percent of the venue's capacity. Hotels, lodges, bed and breakfasts, timeshare facilities, resorts and guest houses may not host more than 50 percent of the capacity of the venue, with patrons observing a distance of least one and a half metres from each other. Gatherings at auctions are allowed, subject to strict adherence to all health protocols, social distancing measures. Sports Sporting activities, including both professional and non-professional matches by recognised sporting bodies, are allowed. Only the required number of players, match officials, support staff and medical crew required for the match. No spectators are allowed at the venue of the sports match and no international sport events are allowed. Law enforcement An enforcement officer must, where a gathering in contravention of the regulations takes place, order the persons at the gathering to disperse immediately; and if the persons refuse to disperse, take appropriate action, which may include the arrest and detention of any person at the gathering. Although we have managed to control the virus through strict lockdown measures, the threat of a ‘second wave’ of infections remains. Vital precautionary measures must be maintained to prevent a new spike in COVID-19 cases. pic.twitter.com/Onk2bHZzqe The easing of restrictions on alcohol sales under Level 1 must be done cautiously and responsibly to prevent harm to public health. pic.twitter.com/y2P1iDr863 The coronavirus pandemic has also caused hardship for many South Africans and their businesses. Government has provided a range of social and economic relief measures to help those affected. pic.twitter.com/nfkZ0oMxWY Evictions, demolitions and rental housing A person may not be evicted from their land or home or have their place of residence demolished for the duration of the national state of disaster unless a competent court has granted an order authorising the eviction or demolition. Rental Housing Tribunals must determine fair procedures for urgent hearing of disputes or may grant urgent orders. During the national state of disaster, the following is presumed to be unfair practice: Partial reopening of borders The 18 land borders which were partially operational will be fully operational, and the 35 land borders currently closed will remain closed. Travelling to and from the country is allowed, subject to the following regulations. From 1 October 2020, all travellers from the African continent and from countries outside the African continent with a low rate of COVID -19 infection and transmission, will resume but the traveller must provide: To temporarily control entry into the Republic from countries outside the African continent, the relevant Cabinet members shall, after consultation with the Cabinet member responsible for health, determine in directions - (a) criteria for controlling entry into the Republic, from such countries with a high COVID -19 infection and transmission rate. The list of such countries with a high COVID -19 infection and transmission rate, which list may, from time to time, be amended. International travel from countries listed as having a high COVID -19 infection and transmission rate, will remain prohibited except for business travel which may be allowed with the approval of the Minister of Home Affairs. Daily commuters from neighbouring countries who attend or teach at a school, and who are allowed entry into and exit from the country are subject to compliance with protocols relating to: All commercial seaports will be opened. International air travel is restricted to the following airports: Public transport Bus and taxi services may not carry more than 70 percent of the licensed capacity for long-distance (>200km) travel; and may carry 100 percent of the licensed capacity for any trip not regarded as long-distance travel. A driver, owner or operator of public transport may not allow any member of the public who is not wearing a face mask, to board or be conveyed in a public transport owned or operated by him or her. Sale and dispensing of liquor The sale of liquor by a licensed premise for off-site consumption is allowed from 09h00 to 17h00, from Mondays to Fridays, excluding weekends and public holidays; and (b) by licensed premises for on-site consumption is permitted, subject to strict adherence to the curfew contemplated in regulation 66. Offences and penalties For the duration of the national state of disaster, any person who hinders, interferes with, or obstructs an enforcement officer in the exercise of his or her powers, or the performance of his or her duties in terms of the regulations, is liable to a fine or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months.