Kalidas Chavdekar, a school teacher of Aasha Marathi Vidyalay, points to a writing from textbooks of various subjects painted on the wall of a house to teach students who are unable to carry smartphones to attend online classes. SOLAPUR - Out on a street in an Indian village, half a dozen children gather around their teacher who points a stick at the diagrams on a wall, one of many murals in the neighbourhood being used to help poor students keep up with their education during the coronavirus pandemic. With schools shut since March in a virus lockdown, teachers in Nilamnagar, western India, became concerned that some youngsters would fall behind because their families cannot afford an internet subscription for online classes. So they came up with a workaround -- children like playing on the streets, so they would take their lessons outside. READ: Virus curbs see elephant idols shrunk for major Indian festival "Since most of the families lack resources to educate their kids digitally, we had to come up with an innovative method to keep children invested in education," Ram Gaikwad, a teacher at Asha Marathi Vidyalaya school, told AFP ahead of Teachers' Day in India on Saturday. The outdoor classrooms for a total of 1,700 students aged between six and 16 have been a hit. Every day, small groups gather at the painted walls in alternate lanes in the village of more than 30,000 people, sitting or standing as they take notes. READ: India opens the world's largest COVID-19 care centre Their teachers walk through the village each weekday morning, stopping to explain the lesson or answer any questions. The murals cover a vast range of subjects -- from writing to trigonometry -- in English and the local Marathi language. So far, 250 walls in the village have been painted by a local artist, and the school hopes to commission another 200. READ: India approves human trials for second COVID-19 vaccine Parents have chipped in to help with the project's cost, which has reached 150,000 rupees ($2,050) so far, said the school's principal Tasleem Pathan. "The entire village is invested in keeping the children educated during the pandemic," Pathan told AFP.