Diana Rigg, star of 'The Avengers' and 'Game of Thrones' has died at the age of 82, her agent has said. LONDON - Stars of stage and screen paid tribute to Diana Rigg, the award-winning British actress who shot to fame in the 1960s television series "The Avengers" and won new fans in "Game of Thrones", after her death aged 82. Rigg, who won Emmy, Tony and Bafta awards during her lengthy career on both sides of the Atlantic, passed away six months after being diagnosed with cancer. Simon Beresford, her agent, said in a statement that she had died "peacefully" early on Thursday morning at home with her family, who had asked for privacy. "Dame Diana was a much loved and admired member of her profession, a force of nature who loved her work and her fellow actors," he added. "She will be greatly missed." Rigg's daughter, the actress Rachael Stirling, said her mother had "spent her last months joyfully reflecting on her extraordinary life, full of love, laughter and a deep pride in her profession". "I will miss her beyond words," she added. Rigg worked at the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC) after classical training at Britain's prestigious Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA). But it was as the cat-suited Emma Peel to Patrick Macnee's bowler-hatted John Steed in the swashbuckling television spy series "The Avengers" that she became a household name. In an early role, she famously played James Bond's wife, Tracy, in the 1969 film starring George Lazenby, "On Her Majesty's Secret Service". Bond franchise producers Michael G. Wilson and Barbara Broccoli praised Rigg's performance as the one woman who got the fictional superspy to the altar. "The legendary stage and screen actress... was much beloved by Bond fans for her memorable performance as Tracy di Vicenzo in 'On Her Majesty's Secret Service', the only woman to have married James Bond," they said. In the later stages of her career, Rigg won legions of younger fans and critical praise for her part as Olenna Tyrell in the hugely popular "Game of Thrones" series. Other film roles included the 1994 comedy-drama "A Good Man in Africa", adapted from a William Boyd novel, and the 2017 biographical drama "Breathe", directed by Andy Serkis. "For half her life Diana was the most beautiful woman in the room, but she was what used to be called a Trouper," said playwright and screenwriter Tom Stoppard, who called her talent "luminous". "She went to work with her sleeves rolled up and a smile for everyone," he added.