A great tree has fallen. That is how President Cyril Ramaphosa has described the death of the late George Bizos. The president says Bizos was passionate about the law. Ramaphosa delivered the eulogy at Bizos' funeral. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - South Africa on Thursday bade farewell to George Bizos, the "hero" anti-apartheid lawyer who represented Nelson Mandela at his trial for treason, at a state funeral filled with emotional tributes. Bizos, a revered, soft-spoken figure, died at his Johannesburg home last week of natural causes at the age of 92. His flag-draped coffin was wheeled into a Greek community hall by military pall-bearers on Thursday, with President Cyril Ramaphosa in attendance, before it was driven to a cemetery on a ceremonial military gun carriage. READ: Tributes pour in for George Bizos Speakers before a small gathering of family and other dignitaries -- due to coronavirus restrictions -- paid heartfelt tributes to the man who became Mandela's personal friend and defended human rights to the end of his life. Ramaphosa described Bizos as a "hero", a "lover of freedom" and likened him to a "baobab tree". "We are here to celebrate and also to bid farewell to a titan of the legal profession whose defence of the cause of justice was as tenacious and it was lifelong," said Ramaphosa. READ: George Bizos remembered as a selfless man At the height of the apartheid era, Bizos secured a life sentence for Mandela and others fighting white-minority rule at the landmark Rivonia Trial in 1964. "The apartheid government punished him quite severely by denying him citizenship for over three decades and there he was living stateless in a country that he had adopted," Ramaphosa said. The regime told him "he was not fit and proper to become a South African citizen," said the president. READ: Ramaphosa pays tribute to 'legal eagle' Bizos Yet Bizos was a "patriot" and "the embodiment of a fit and proper South African citizen," Ramaphosa said. He continued working until he was past 90 years old, with one of his last major cases securing government payouts in 2014 for the families of 34 miners gunned down two years earlier. Ramaphosa concluded his eulogy saying: "Madiba your friend of 65 years is waiting to welcome you". South African president Cyril Ramaphosa presents the eulogy during the funeral of George Bizos at the Hellenic Cultural Centre in Johannesburg, South Africa, on September 17, 2020. The late human rights lawyer and activist George Bizos represented Nelson Mandela during the Rivonia Trial. He was honoured with a special official funeral followed by a burial at Westpark Cemetery after passing away on September 9, 2020, at the age of 92. South African President Cyril Ramaphosa (C) attends the funeral of George Bizos at the Hellenic Cultural Centre in Johannesburg, South Africa, on September 17, 2020. The late human rights lawyer and activist George Bizos represented Nelson Mandela during the Rivonia Trial. He was honoured with a special official funeral followed by a burial at Westpark Cemetery after passing away on September 9, 2020, at the age of 92. Pallbearers carry the coffin during the funeral of George Bizos at the Hellenic Cultural Centre in Johannesburg, South Africa, on September 17, 2020. The late human rights lawyer and activist George Bizos represented Nelson Mandela during the Rivonia Trial. He was honoured with a special official funeral followed by a burial at Westpark Cemetery after passing away on September 9, 2020, at the age of 92. Mourners attend the burial of George Bizos at the Westpark Cemetery in Johannesburg, South Africa, on September 17, 2020. The late human rights lawyer and activist George Bizos represented Nelson Mandela during the Rivonia Trial. He was honoured with a special official funeral followed by a burial at Westpark Cemetery after passing away on September 9, 2020, at the age of 92. A photo of George Bizos is seen next to his grave during the burial at the Westpark Cemetery.