President Ramaphosa says the country is poorer without him. The late human right's veteran is being remembered as a selfless man who fought for legal justice for all South Africans. JOHANNESBURG - A successful human rights lawyer, an activist, and a really good gardener, are just some of the many hats George Bizos wore. Close friends and the Greek community at large have described him as a man of stamina and patience. The 92-year-old Bizos will be laid to rest next week. READ: Tributes pour in for George Bizos He has been described as a proud South African-Greek by his community. The word "philotimo", which means love of honour and selflessness in Greek, is what Papou Bizos epitomised.
Saheti School Life vice-president Vaios Kokkoris said, "as a lawyer, he had stamina, unbelievable, he never let go until the matter was finished. He had patience…There were no airs about him. I am going to miss him terribly." IN PICTURES: Remembering George Bizos Saheti School Director of Academics, Daniela Pitt said, "the one thing that struck me as the most amazing thing about him, even though he fought the battle hard and fast, in the dark days of apartheid he was always open to forgiveness and kindness and shared the true values of what Hellenism was."
It was his passion for education and loyalty to his Greek roots, that led to the inception of Saheti School. Saheti School chairman Andreas Stephanou said, "the memories of his last couple of years, his tenacity, love and passion of school, Hellenism, for the school, fighting for what is right and not giving up." READ: Ramaphosa pays tribute to 'legal eagle' Bizos He was not only a maestro when it came to the law, Bizos had very green fingers.
Dominique Souris, a friend, said, "he was also a very good in his private life. [A] gardener, he created a very nice, professional veggie garden. My husband was a good friend of his and he used to go there 6am in the morning to find him, he used to wake and spend a couple of hours in the garden..."
Bizos is seen not only as a man of integrity and courage, but also a giant who changed the lives of many, both in and outside the courtroom.