Our famous rooibos is used in more than just tea - it's also an ingredient in health and beauty products and now it's been given yet another healing purpose. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG -The famous rooibos is used in more than just tea. It's also an ingredient in health and beauty products. Now it's been given yet another healing purpose. The tea leaves are being used to create art to raise our lockdown-battered spirits. South Africa’s Rooibos Council have come up with a creative way to inspire and uplift South Africans, after 5 months of  lockdown, using the famous rooibos leaf and art to do just that. Martine Swart from the Council says that they wanted to do something to uplifts spirits. READ: Khoi and San communities to reap benefits of rooibos industry “I think we have been in lockdown for such a long period of time and we have been isolated and we wanted to do something really feel good. It’s is such a thing that binds South Africans together", says Swart. Swart further says like the Roiboos plant, South Africans have the same resilience "The Rooibos plant is incredibly strong, it grows when it is really cold, it grows when the wind is blowing and it grows when the sun is beating down on it, ja and it just survives and we we really came up with the idea that South African people alot like the plant we just survive, we just continue.” The artist who normally uses sand as her medium, skillfully replaced it with finely ground rooibos tea leaves. WATCH: Rooibos a miracle cure? And in a poignant three-minute video, the picture- perfect art takes you on a South African journey “We really wanted to show South Africa but then we also wanted to bring it home to the Cedarberg because that’s where it lives and thrives.  In the video we really try to show the resilience of the plant, the resilience of the people. so you will see in the video it morphs from the rooibos plant to the people, from the rooibos plant to the South African people". The nature-inspired creation has been shared on the Rooibos Council's social media platforms and also comes just in time for Heritage Month.