File: The report by Corruption Watch found that 55 percent of complaints about the police came in after the declaration of lockdown in March. JOHANNESBURG - The police have once again topped the list of corruption reports this year. That’s according to the Analysis of Corruption Trends released on Tuesday. The report by Corruption Watch found that 55 percent of complaints about the police came in after the declaration of lockdown in March. READ: Civil society organisations call for action against corruption Corruption Watch researcher Melusi Ncala says this also speaks to how police officers are protected at police stations when improper conduct is reported. Almost 2,000 people took the step of blowing the whistle on corruption during the first half of the year compared to the same period last year. READ: NPA moving slowly on major corruption cases: Hofmeyr “The reports that we receive provide a snapshot of the graft that has manifested in every sphere of government, with the complicity of the private sector, and encompassing multiple sectors in our society," Ncala said. “The destruction wrought by corruption is silent but deadly, and it is most often the poorest in society who are brutalised by the actions of these corrupt individuals.” Municipal offices, schools and traffic and licensing centres each account for 5 percent of the reports, and the health sector comes in at 4 percent. Members of the public have reported being forced to pay for food parcels or provide favours in exchange. READ: Ramaphosa: We must fight corruption as a country Corruption Watch says it received 67 such reports during the national lockdown. Ncala says this trend was rampant at a local government level. Maladministration, the deliberate delaying of or disregard for legal and official government processes accounts for 19 percent of all reports. #ACT2020: 55% of reports came in after the declaration in mid-March of the national state of disaster. Access report here: https://t.co/YblMWAyW2X pic.twitter.com/hODARRNliJ The police have once again topped the list of corruption reports this year.That’s according to the Analysis of Corruption Trends released today. The report by Corruption Watch found that 55 percent of complaints about the police came in after the declaration of lockdown in March. pic.twitter.com/31v1YIht1W