Corruption, factionalism and political links within the SAPS. Crime experts say these factors can't be discounted in the assassination of top Cape Town police investigator, Charl Kinnear.  They're warning more police officers, magistrates and judges could lose their lives if more is not done to protect them.  Lindsay Dentlinger reports. Courtesy #DStv403 CAPE TOWN - Corruption, factionalism and political links within the SAPS are factors that can't be discounted in the assassination of top police investigator Charl Kinnear, according to crime experts. They're warning more police officers, magistrates and judges could lose their lives if more is not done to protect them. Police Minister Bheki Cele has promised a breakthrough in the Kinnear case within 72 hours. READ: Kinnear was targeted: Police union Kinnear was shot dead in front of his Bishop Lavis home on Friday afternoon.
Former WC police commissioner Lennit Max said the police are not protected and can't protect themselves. "Are you surprised that so many gang-related cases are unresolved? Because witnesses fear for their lives and they know the police can't protect them as well," Max said. READ: Anti-gang unit detective gunned down Former SARS crime buster Johann van Loggerenberg said deliberate attempts to scupper investigations from within are well documented.
"What we ought to be discussing is, what are the institutions doing to protect and ensure the safety of those individuals involved in high-risk investigations on behalf of the state," Van Loggerenberg said.
Max and van Loggerenberg say factionalism within the criminal justice system has been threatening investigations for years. READ: R1m reward for info leading to arrest of Kinnear killers Van Loggerenberg warns it's only a matter of time before more investigators come under attack. "They bide their time. It's not like they immediately act. It's all about revenge it's all about avoiding consequences to them, about attacking those individuals who present the greatest risk and threat of detection to them or their criminal enterprises." Max said the lack of arrests, particularly for gang-related crimes, further fuels fear among communities who witness and experience them.