 The US embassy in South Africa is keeping mum on reports of a plot to assassinate its ambassador Lana Marks. This after reports by Politico that Iran was plotting to kill the diplomat. WASHINGTON - The United States Embassy in South Africa is keeping silent following reports that Iran is planning to assassinate ambassador Lana Marks. The information is allegedly contained in US intelligence. Iran warned the US against making a "strategic mistake" after President Donald Trump threatened Tehran over reports it planned to avenge the killing of top general Qasem Soleimani. READ: Trump vows '1,000 times greater' response to any Iran attack "We hope that they do not make a new strategic mistake and certainly in the case of any strategic mistake, they will witness Iran's decisive response," Iranian government spokesman Ali Rabiei told a televised news conference. Trump vowed on Monday that any attack by Iran would be met with a response "1,000 times greater in magnitude," after reports that Iran planned to avenge the killing of top general Qasem Soleimani. According to press reports, Iran may be planning an assassination, or other attack, against the United States in retaliation for the killing of terrorist leader Soleimani, which was carried out for his planning a future attack, murdering U.S. Troops, and the death & suffering... ...caused over so many years. Any attack by Iran, in any form, against the United States will be met with an attack on Iran that will be 1,000 times greater in magnitude! A US media report, quoting unnamed officials, said that an alleged Iranian plot to assassinate the US ambassador to South Africa was planned ahead of the US presidential election in November. "According to press reports, Iran may be planning an assassination, or other attack, against the United States in retaliation for the killing of terrorist leader Soleimani," Trump tweeted. "Any attack by Iran, in any form, against the United States will be met with an attack on Iran that will be 1,000 times greater in magnitude!" READ: Iran denies plot to assassinate US ambassador Marks Rabiei expressed regret that "the president of a country who has claims to global management and order would make hasty, agenda-fuelled and dubious remarks on such a weak basis." He warned that reacting to such reports would "achieve nothing but disruption to the region and to world calm" and advised Trump to "refrain from fresh adventurism... for the sake of winning a new term as president." On Monday, Iran's foreign ministry denied the report of an assassination plot as "baseless" and part of "repetitive and rotten methods to create an anti-Iranian atmosphere". READ: Iranian embassy rejects assassination plot reports Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Monday declined to comment directly on the reported threat to Lana Marks, the US ambassador to South Africa, who is a close ally of Trump. But Pompeo told Fox News that "the Islamic Republic of Iran has engaged in assassination efforts all across the world. They have assassinated people in Europe and in other parts of the world. We take these... allegations seriously. "We make very clear to the Islamic Republic of Iran that this kind of activity -- attacking any American any place at any time, whether it's an American diplomat, an ambassador or one of our service members -- is completely unacceptable." The South African government has weighed in and says the matter is receiving attention. “The agency is interacting with all relevant partners, both in the country and abroad to ensure that no harm will be suffered by the US ambassador including any other diplomatic officials inside the borders of our country," said the State Security Agency's Mava Scott. "The Minister of State Security Ayanda Dlodlo says South Africa has a duty to protect maximally all diplomatic officials who are on state duty in our country. “ - Additional reporting eNCA