Mass screening and testing are crucial in gauging the spread of COVID-19 and flattening the curve of infections. KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Sihle Zikalala has launched a provincial mass screening and testing campaign in Pietermaritzburg. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Mass screening and testing are crucial in gauging the spread of COVID-19 and flattening the curve of infections. KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Sihle Zikalala has launched a provincial mass screening and testing campaign in Pietermaritzburg. KZN is one of the provinces with the highest number of infections and has the most deaths so far. READ: Home screening rolled out in KZN Health authorities are worried about increasing infections and deaths in the province. “When you look at the number of deaths that we have in KwaZulu-Natal and compare it with the number of infected people there is a clear indication that there are people that we are missing, not that we have under-accounted because with all those who have tested we have counted them and we have announced on them. It just means that there are people who are out there that we have not tested and are not coming up to Government to say we haven’t tested,” said Health MEC, Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu. Provincial authorities are already thinking about how to deal with this invisible enemy once lockdown regulations are eased. WATCH: NCC briefs SA on lockdown regulations “It’s important that we fast track the mass screening and testing because once we are able to identify those who are infected, we put them aside, quarantine them and therefore in the post lockdown, we are just dealing with preventative measures alone,” said Zikalala. Authorities hope by the time the lockdown is lifted - they will have screened and tested many people in hotspot areas across the province. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.