Courtesy #DStv403 TSHWANE - President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Thursday the lockdown will be gradually lifted to revive the economy. The president explained the five alert levels that are going to be implemented from 1 May. COVID-19: Ramaphosa to ease lockdown regulations The country is currently at Alert Level Five and Ramaphosa said the gradual, phased recovery of economic activity will be measured and incremental. On 1 May, South Africa will move to Level Four, meaning some business activity will be allowed to resume subject to extreme precautions to limit community transmission and outbreaks At all levels: On Thursday, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on the 1st of May the country will begin a gradual and phased recovery of economic activity. Level 5 The country is currently at Level 5 where drastic measures are required to contain the spread of the virus to save lives. READ: WHO warns lifting of coronavirus lockdowns must be gradual During an Alert Level 5, all the lockdown regulations apply with no businesses apart from essential services operating. Level 4 At Level 4 some activity can be allowed to resume subject to extreme precautions required to limit community transmission and outbreaks. Our borders will remain closed to international travel, except for the repatriation of South African nationals and foreign citizens.
No travel will be allowed between provinces, except for the transportation of goods and exceptional circumstances such as funerals. No travel will be allowed between provinces when the lockdown regulations start easing. If you need to attend a funeral in another province, you will still need a permit. #Day28ofLockdown READ: JSE applauds Ramaphosa's COVID-19 fiscal stimulus Public transport will continue to operate, with limitations on the number of passengers and stringent hygiene requirements, including that all passengers must wear a face mask.
The public is encouraged to stay at home, other than for essential personal movement, doing essential work and work in sectors that are under controlled opening. People can exercise under strict public health conditions.
All gatherings, apart from funerals and for work, will remain prohibited. Level 3 involves the easing of some restrictions, including on work and social activities, to address a high risk of transmission.Level 2 involves the further easing of restrictions, but the maintenance of physical distancing and restrictions on some leisure and social activities to prevent a resurgence of the virus.Level 1 means that most normal activity can resume, with precautions and health guidelines followed at all times. The president stated more detail on the specifics of each alert level will be communicated in the coming days. Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.