Eating more plant-based meals doesn’t have to mean a complete lifestyle overhaul. If you’re actively looking for healthy alternatives to make your meat dishes more nutritious, or ways to limit your meat consumption, adopting a flexitarian / semi-vegetarian diet might just be the answer. To help you get started, we’ve got a few practical tips and tricks. Finding Healthy Meat Alternatives or Making Your Meals More Nutritious If you’d like to incorporate more meat alternatives into your diet but don't want to commit to becoming a full-time vegan or vegetarian, no problem! Eating more plant-based meals doesn’t have to mean a complete lifestyle overhaul. If you're on the hunt for healthy meat alternatives as part of your new, healthier approach to eating, look for better-for-you recipes that trade meat for flavourful plant-based substitutes with a similar flavour and texture profile. For example, take your favourite bolognaise recipe and swap out the mince for lentils. The good news is you’ll barely be able to taste the difference! Or if swopping out meat completely is not your style, simply make your meat dishes more nutritious by adding a wider variety of healthy fresh ingredients to your dish. Simple ways to help curb your meat intake may also include restricting your meat intake to once a day, buying less meat, incorporating more meatless meals into your weekly diet, or becoming a flexitarian and only eating meat on select days. What is a flexitarian? A flexitarian is loosely defined as a ‘casual vegetarian’. The idea behind the flexitarian diet is to encourage a more flexible approach to vegetarianism; which lets you reap all the benefits of eating more plants, vegetables and whole-grains, without ditching animal products like meat, fish and poultry altogether. Want more tips like these? Live a healthier life and learn how to make delicious plant-based meals with Knorr. Catch Food Matters every Sunday at 19:55 on eNCA and on e.tv every Sunday! For more information on Knorr’s purpose click here. How to make a change to your plate today: Discover Better For You Recipes Here Sign up for eat-better recipes