JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa said innovative and exceptional ways to overcome the country's problems must be found. He wrote in his weekly newsletter that the country will now be set back by many years, and our recovery will take a great deal of effort and resources following the COVID-19 pandemic. READ: Ramaphosa: Battling COVID-19 is opportunity to end inequality "Even as we turn the tide on the coronavirus pandemic, we will still have to confront a contracting economy, unemployment, crime and corruption, a weakened state and other pressing concerns," Ramaphosa wrote. Ramaphosa said the crisis must be turned into an opportunity to build the economy and fix social ills. "Though we are certainly all braving the same tide, we have not been impacted in the same way," Ramaphosa wrote.
 
"The social relief measures announced last week that are now being implemented are therefore as much about narrowing the gulf of inequality as they are about supporting vulnerable citizens through this trying time. EXPLAINER: Ramaphosa's three-point economic COVID-19 relief plan "The collaborative spirit with which government, business, labour and civil society formations have worked to drive the national effort to combat the coronavirus is yet another affirmation of just how far we have come.
 
"Robust engagement, strong institutions, social compacting and consensus-building are all the fruits of the national democratic project that began in 1994," he wrote. READ: COVID-19: Ramaphosa thanks frontline health workers Ramaphosa said the provision of services is the government's main priority and he called on officials to remember they are servants of the people. "Violating the coronavirus response provisions and exposing others to a potentially fatal illness is the worst form of disrespect for others." - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.