File: Nehawu wants to compel the government to provide masks, gloves and sanitisers to members. JOHANNESBURG - The court battle between the health department and Nehawu has been delayed. The union approached the Labour Court over a lack of protective gear for health workers. READ: Nehawu, Health Dept expected in court It wants to compel the government to provide masks, gloves and sanitisers to members. The hearing of the urgent application has been delayed as papers were filed late. READ: Nehawu fights for protective equipment "The risk of employees being infected with the COVID-19 virus is real," Zola Saphetha, general secretary of Nehawu, said in court papers. The union wants the ministers of health and labour, among others, to establish rules on treatment in the absence of appropriate protective equipment. Some of its members in KwaZulu-Natal have been infected, it says. READ: Union drags government to court "The failure to provide guidelines to mitigate the risk to employees in the circumstances unjustifiably and without valid reason places employees at great risk and violates their right to work in a safe environment," the affidavit said. The union has also asked the government to report on the outcomes of engagement with unions within three days of a meeting. READ: COVID-19 death toll rises to 13, confirmed cases to 1,749 They asked that health workers not be forced to work without PPE and will not face disciplinary action for refusal to work without the equipment. Nehawu and its mother body Cosatu say health workers are most at risk of contracting the coronavirus. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs. - Additional reporting Reuters