South Africans have endured five weeks of Level 5 lockdown. On Friday, most of the country will move to Level 4. But how has behaviour changed, especially on the roads? #Day33ofLockdown #LockdownEasedRegulations Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - From Friday 1 May, many parts of the country will move to a Level 4 lockdown. Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula is urging motorists to continue to comply with lockdown regulations. Mbalula said there has been a gradual increase of compliance amongst motorists since the beginning of the lockdown. WATCH: No one is immune to COVID-19, says Mbalula The minister said there have been a fewer number of arrests for drunken driving and driving long distances for no reason as the lockdown has progressed. He mentioned moving between provinces to attend funerals has been one of the main reasons given for travel. Mbalula said the majority of South African motorists understand and have been compliant with the lockdown regulations. READ: Mbalula announces changes to transport restrictions The minister cautioned that the easing of regulations does not mean the lockdown is over, but a gradual lifting of regulations, informed by the Health Department's expertise. He stated operation times of taxis will be extended but they will not be allowed to increase passenger capacity. The minister also said curfews will be enforced while long-distance travel and inter-provincial travel restrictions will remain. WATCH: Motorists taking chances with the law during lockdown Mbalula said the situation will be closely monitored. The status quo will not drastically change, the minister said. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.