The police minister has told officers enforcing the national lockdown to push South Africans back to their homes if they refuse to stay inside. Courtesy #DStv403 SECUNDA - The police minister has told officers enforcing the national lockdown to push South Africans back to their homes if they refuse to stay inside. Bheki Cele visited the Embalenhle Township in Secunda, where the community held a party after the lockdown was declared. Cele says he’s satisfied with the police’s conduct during the lockdown, despite complaints of brutality. WATCH: No kissing in Mzansi, says Cele "We need to be not very kind to people that don't listen because they are a danger to themselves," said Cele. "They are a danger to all of us." Cele told the police officers that they must protect the people who don't want to protect themselves. WATCH: Comply with lockdown regulations, Mkhize urges "It's our duty. If you don't want to protect yourself and the rest of us, we must start by protecting you." Cele said he doesn't know why some people need to be frogmarched when they are caught outside their homes. "If you stay in your house you behave," he said. READ: DA launches WhatsApp line to report SANDF, police violations Cele and the police's national leadership will tour country to see if lockdown regulations are adhered to. Meanwhile, the C19 People's Coalition said in a statement that they are concerned about recorded cases of assault, degrading physical punishments, allegations of corruption and deaths as a result of police conduct. "We call on the government to adopt a more compassionate, public health and humanitarian focused approach to the work of security forces during the lockdown," the organisation said. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.