File: The Home Affairs Department outlined temporary measures that are in place to address immigration matters during the lockdown period. JOHANNESBURG – The Department of Home Affairs says holders of temporary residence visas that expired from mid-February who did not renew their visas before the lockdown, will not be declared illegal or prohibited persons. The department outlined temporary measures that are in place to address immigration matters during the lockdown period. READ: Home Affairs announces lockdown hours Any person whose visa expired before or during the lockdown will not be arrested or detained for holding an expired visa and that those who opt to return to their countries of origin or residence after the lockdown instead of renewing their visas will not be declared undesirable upon departure. “During the lockdown, the department is not receiving or adjudicating applications for visas and for permanent residence permits,” the department said in a statement. MAP: SA cancels visitor visas from high-risk nations “Foreign nationals whose visas expired after 15 February 2020 may reapply for their respective visas or relevant visa exemptions while in the Republic immediately after the lockdown has been lifted. They will not be required to apply for authorisation to remain in the country (Good Cause/ Form 20). “Foreign nationals whose visas expired after 15 February 2020 who had scheduled appointments on dates which fall within the lockdown period should reschedule their appointments to an available date after the lockdown has been lifted.” Below is a list of other temporary measures; People whose visa expired during the lockdown and those who have submitted their applications before the lockdown but their applications are still pending, will be allowed to work, study or conduct business after the lockdown while waiting for the outcome of their applications. Visas issued to nationals of high-risk countries who were outside the Republic on 15 March 2020 were revoked as per the Directions issued by the Department in terms of the Disaster Management Act, 2002. These visas remain revoked. During the lockdown, except for cases relating to expatriation initiated by another state, all foreign nationals who are currently in South Africa may not depart. Holders of the Lesotho Special Permit have up to 15 June 2020 to submit their applications for the Lesotho Exemption Permit. The Lesotho Special Permits which expired on 31 December 2019 remain valid until 15 June 2020. No new applications will be taken. Any asylum seeker whose visa expired from 16 March 2020 to the end of the lockdown period will not be penalised or arrested provided that they legalise their visa within 30 calendar days of the lockdown being lifted. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.