File: In a statement, Sadtu general secretary Mugwena Maluleke identified the woman as Tholakele Shandu who taught at Plattdrive Primary School in Isipingo, Durban. DURBAN - The Department of Education and the South African Democratic Teachers' Union have sent their condolences to the family of a teacher who died of COVID-19 complications. In a statement, Sadtu general secretary Mugwena Maluleke identified the teacher as Tholakele Shandu who taught at Plattdrive Primary School in Isipingo, Durban. Shandu was admitted to St Augustine Hospital twice and died on 31 March. Her children and a friend who had contact with her, have all tested positive for COVID-19. READ: COVID-19 death toll rises to five “As the COVID-19 spreads, we call on the society not to stigmatise those who are affected and infected by the virus and their families. "We call on the society to educate those who are still thinking that the virus knows boundaries and conspiracy theories to abide by the rules and regulations as promulgated by the government and stay indoors,” Maluleke said. She did not have contact with anyone from her school and Plattdrive Primary staff and pupils have been urged not to panic. READ: Education Department urges pupils to keep learning Minister for Basic Education Angie Motshekga said the death was devastating. “We will ensure that the families, colleagues and classmates of the learner receive counselling. Losing teachers at a time like this is particularly hard when they are instrumental in ensuring that learning and teaching continue during the time of the lockdown,” she said in a statement. "We send our deepest and sincerest condolences to the Shandu family, learners and teachers of Plattdrive Primary School." - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.