eMedia Investments in association with the Hosken Consolidated Investments (HCI) Foundation, is launching a COVID-19 Relief Fund aimed at assisting the most vulnerable in our society. Johannesburg, Thursday, 16 April 2019 - “We’re not going to die from COVID-19, we’re going to die from hunger,” the painful and desperate words of a viewer we spoke to in Mitchell’s Plain. Residents took to the streets, not in defiance of the lockdown, but in search of food to feed their families. In recognition of this need, eMedia Investments in association with the Hosken Consolidated Investments (HCI) Foundation, is launching a COVID-19 Relief Fund aimed at assisting the most vulnerable in our society – fellow South Africans at risk of going to sleep without a meal. “To us, Ubuntu is a doing word and as much as we launch this relief fund with a contribution that shows just that; we do so fully aware that South Africans who watch our channels feel exactly the same. HCI Foundation, the corporate social investment arm of black empowerment investment company HCI, is contributing R500 000 to kick-start the fund. “In addition to their financial contribution, the HCI Foundation will mobilise their already established national network of NGO’s to assist with distribution. Together with our viewers, and the HCI Foundation; we hope to do our part in getting us through this difficult time. We will not stand by while children, child-headed households and the elderly struggle to get the nutrition they need to stay healthy during this disaster. Neither will fellow South Africans,” Sherrif adds. Jamala Safari, CEO of the HCI Foundation, said that the fund would be working with reputable NGOs to make sure that as many families as possible benefit. As part of its food distribution network, the eMedia COVID-19 Relief Fund will also work with the Lunchbox Fund. This is a service that provides daily meals to orphaned and vulnerable school children within townships and rural areas across South Africa. “The steady increase in cases of COVID-19 cases has presented a significant need for citizens across the country to stay indoors to assist with slowing the spread and effects of the virus. We urge our viewers to continue playing their part in fighting the pandemic by staying at home while we keep them informed and entertained,” Sherrif concluded. Viewers and businesses can visit donate.enca.com and follow the ‘Donate now’ link or call the call centre on 021 481 4599 to contribute.