Flora Recipes | Seed Crusted Chicken Taco Join Sinoyolo live at 11am on Wednesday, 22nd April to get a step by step video instruction on how to make this recipe. ●     chicken fillets, cut into strips ●     Salt and pepper ●     1 egg, lightly whisked ●     mixed seeds like, sunflower seeds, linseeds, sesame seeds and pumpkin seeds ●     2 tbsp. Flora Regula ●     2 tbsp. olive oil ●     1 small red cabbage, thinly sliced ●     1 small green cabbage, thinly sliced ●     A small handful cocktail tomatoes, halved ●     6 taco shells ●     For the Flora mayo ●     2 tbsp. Flora Regular ●     2 tbsp. mayonnaise ●     Handful chives, chopped ●     Handful parsley, chopped 1.     Preheat the oven to 200°C. 2.     Season the chicken fillets with salt and pepper. Dip each fillet into the whisked egg. Then coat the chicken fillets with the seed mix. 3.     Heat the Flora Regular and olive oil in a frying pan over medium heat. Fry the chicken fillets in batches for 2 minutes on each side or until golden brown. Transfer them to an oven tray and bake for 5-10 minutes or until cooked through. 4.     Fill the taco shells with red cabbage, green cabbage, cucumber and chicken strips. 5.     For the Flora mayo; combine the Flora Regular, mayonnaise, chives and parsley. 6.     Dollop the taco's with the Flora mayo.  Most of us have run out of creative ways to prepare our meals. Some people are complaining that lockdown binge eating is starting to show up on their waists. Courtesy #DStv403 My name is Sinoyolo Sifo a 30-year-old male with passion for home cooking. I come from a large family, originally from the Eastern Cape in a small Village called Kwanonkobe in Mthatha. It is from these roots that my passion for cooking started. I am a self-taught cook and the founder of Sifo_The_Cooking_Husband which is an Instagram page where I share simple and healthy meals. My wife Nondumiso Sifo gave me the courage to start this page as I have a dream of opening up a restaurant one day and to have my own cookbook.