There's been a lot of focus on the lack of compliance with lockdown regulations in townships and informal settlements. But, what about those living in suburbia? Are they obeying the rules? Slindelo Masikane drove around Johannesburg's suburbs to find out who might still be out and about. WASHINGTON - Some complain about joggers panting on passers-by. Others wonder what to do when they overhear drunken partygoers rejecting quarantine measures. Still more question whether people they see in the street are really on "essential" business. Local social media networks are rapidly becoming sites where neighbours police neighbours during the global coronavirus pandemic. And as users test the line between civic duty and intrusive surveillance -- often trying to shame their peers into obeying social distancing rules -- experts worry that a practice once frowned upon is becoming normalised. READ: SA lockdown: Is suburbia obeying the rules? Online shaming is nothing new -- and neither is neighbours keeping tabs on one another -- but never in history have so many people had such a high stake in enforcing social rules, or such a fast and accessible platform on which to do so. "There is a sense that if you do it you can save lives... With COVID-19, we're scared and there is an urgency to enforce the social distancing rules. Shaming is really one of the only tools we have," says Dr Emily Laidlaw, an associate professor at the University of Calgary who studies privacy law and online shaming. Privacy expert Laidlaw also believes such policing can be effective. READ: You may not kiss the bride: Social distancing in force at Indonesia wedding But "there is a cost that should be acknowledged -- casualties who are taken down by this unfairly, and the normalisation of neighbourhood surveillance," she said. Laidlaw said policing and shaming were already on their way to being normalised online before the pandemic, noting that "shaming sites are not new, nor are neighbourhood watch/surveillance sites". But until now, she says, there was also strong condemnation of public shaming. "I worry when the dust has settled, what was once contentious will be the new normal."