President Cyril Ramaphosa's COVID-19 announcements last night have been well-received by leading political parties. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa's COVID-19 announcements on Tuesday night have been well-received by leading political parties. READ: Ramaphosa announces 6-months coronavirus relief grant The R500-billion package includes a range of interventions including a R50 billion 6-months coronavirus relief grant; R100 billion for jobs and R70 billion in tax relief. The Democratic Alliance said the grant would bring much needed relief to all South Africans. Meanwhile, the EFF said it accepts the core economic measures announced by the president and awaits additional details. Freedom Front Plus leader Pieter Groenewald said reduced taxes would have benefitted many South Africa directly. "Many people who were not vulnerable before, are now vulnerable. We would have preferred a reduction in taxes  a reduction in personal income tax, in property tax  that would have benefitted the taxpayers of South Africa directly.", he said. ACDP leader Rev Kenneth Meshoe said the party welcomes the package and suggested that the government should partner with churches in the distribution of food to the hungry. The IFP said government should work hard to ensure that the announced measures reach the right people. "The government should now ramp up its apparatus to ensure that the monitoring is done, and relief packages do not go to wrong hands. Our people are going to benefit a lot. The social relief should be done speedily", said IFP president Velenkosini Hlabisa. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.