My name is Sinoyolo Sifo a 30-year-old male with passion for home cooking. I come from a large family, originally from the Eastern Cape in a small Village called Kwanonkobe in Mthatha. It is from these roots that my passion for cooking started. I am a self-taught cook and the founder of Sifo_The_Cooking_Husband which is an Instagram page where I share simple and healthy meals. My wife Nondumiso Sifo gave me the courage to start this page as I have a dream of opening up a restaurant one day and to have my own cookbook. My name is Meg Lagerwey, I'm a 27 year old certified health coach specializing in gut health, I'm also a copywriter, and a plant-based foodie at heart! I love move, I love to cook, I love to create, and I love to inspire those around me to do the same. My name is Haseena. I’m an Occupational therapist by profession and enjoy working with children.  I was never a person who enjoyed being in the kitchen but being a mom of 3 I found that I needed to make meals and dishes that my children enjoyed whilst being easy to cook.  I started my page @the_daily_dilemna to share with others the fact that cooking and baking are actually easy, fun and very much therepeutic. One does not need to spend hours in the kitchen in order to make a healthy and nutritious meal. When I’m not busy cooking up a storm or working,  I’m busy being a mom, a chauffeur, a tutor and sometimes even a referee!! The best time of day for me is coffee time and I look forward to sitting down with a good, strong coffee whilst reading a book, scrolling through Instagram or catching up on any Netflix series I’m following.  I try to stay healthy by going to gym a few times a week (I try!!) and I enjoy spending time with my family either going out to a fun place for the children or even just going out for a meal and ice cream.  I enjoy travelling with my family and exploring new cities and countries. Zorah is a qualified Le Cordon Bleu Pastry chef and is the founder of her blog Inthemidnightkitchen. Over the years her blog and has moved from pastry and decadence to a more holistic lifestyle which takes food allergies, IBS and healthy foods into account. Being a food photographer and stylist, she always maintains a high standard in her work and finds pure joy in everything she does. The name of her blog came from her desire to bake late at night when her home was still and quiet, she would revel in the ability to create her recipes in peaceful environment. She has since moved into YouTube and IGVT where she creates her own how-to videos which demonstrate how to make simple, yet delicious recipes. Having come from humble beginnings and growing up in the village of Bergville in Kwa Zulu Natal, Zanele Van Zyl has successfully managed to turn her passion into a career. As a young girl, she grew up watching her mother cook soulful traditional food. It was only after she met her husband who challenged her in the kitchen with his cooking skills that she discovered her passion and talent in culinary arts. She was then inspired to study and qualify as a professional chef. Her tenacity and entrepreneurial nature led her to start the “Cooking With Zanele” classes where she teaches and shares her passion for food with keen foodies in different kitchens across the country. She makes cooking delicious beautiful food less daunting by demonstrating her creative, quick and easy recipes in a fun learning environment. Over the years the Zanele has built and inspired a community of foodies through her cooking classes, social media platforms, and now her self-published cookbook (Cooking with Zanele – Simple, Delicious, Quick Meals) that has been well received by her followers. Cooking With Zanele has become a recognizable brand that influences dinner decisions and inspires busy homemakers to experiment in the kitchen and elevate the quality of food they serve to their family and friends.