The South African Prisoners' Rights Organisation wants to know what the correctional services department is doing to stop overcrowding at facilities. Prisoners across the country have threatened to go on hunger strikes in a bid to be released early. They say this will help them avoid contracting coronavirus in overcrowded jails. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Correctional services fired a verbal broadside on Monday after a prisoners' rights group called for protests to demand the release of inmates to help curb coronavirus. Golden Miles Bhudhu, who heads the South African Prisoners Organisation for Human Rights (SAPOHR), said his organisation had called on prisoners to skip some meals -- "a passive hunger strike" -- to demand that inmates be freed to minimise viral spread. SAPOHR is calling for the release of low-risk prisoners such as those who are terminally ill, non-violent first-time offenders and prisoners aged over 60-years, among others. READ: Claims of no PPEs at Limpopo correctional centre "In crowded, unhygienic and filthy cells, the spread of this virus presents a very serious threat," the group said. "Our prisons are not only overcrowded, they are chronically overcrowded and remain breeding grounds for the virus," it said. The government, battling one of the highest crime rates in the world, hit back at the protest call. READ: Limpopo prison official contracts coronavirus In a texted response to AFP, the Department of Correctional Services accused Bhudu of "instigating inmates to revolt against the state". "This is something totally irresponsible and reckless. And there is no need for such," the department's spokesman, Singabakho Nxumalo, said. "The state will not simply open the gates for inmates to walk out. Such will be catastrophic for the country," said Nxumalo. READ: SA lockdown: Correctional services refutes Popcru claims "Offenders have been removed from society for a reason". He said the government had a solid plan to prevent the outbreak of the coronavirus at prisons. "Out of 243 centres, there is only one centre where inmates have contracted the virus," he said. READ: COVID-19 prison screening launched South Africa has around 160,000 inmates at 243 jails, according to official figures, although data on overcrowding is not available. So far the country has detected 99 cases of coronavirus in its prison system. These comprise 56 inmates at a jail in East London in the south of the country, while the remainder are prison employees, most of whom work at that facility, plus several others at three other sites. The health authorities have recorded a total of 3,158 infections in South Africa, the highest in the continent, including 54 deaths. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.