Which industries or businesses will follow mining and be re-opened during the lockdown? Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Will South Africa stay on a hard lockdown, or will we see industries re-opening in a phased approach? The country's been on lockdown for 28 days now, and we have another seven to go. President Cyril Ramaphosa is set to address the nation this evening on what comes next. READ: 28 Gauteng health officials test positive for COVID-19 Political analysts have been hard at work attempting to predict what direction Ramaphosa will take. Caught between a rock and a hard place doesn’t even begin to explain his dilemma. Analyst Dr. Samdoda Fikeni says it is expected of Ramaphosa to allow for some movement and some activities. “He has to do a very tricky balancing act - Containing the virus while at the same time not allowing the economy to collapse, as well as allow the fabric of society to have a degree of latitude". Meanwhile, Economist Sifiso Skenjana says, “If we accelerate infrastructure and mega infrastructure spend, that can have direct implications for the construction sector, which has had consecutive quarters of negative growth." READ: Ramaphosa expected to announce eased lockdown conditions The World Health Organization is the latest authority to pat South Africa in the back. So any room for error or laxity may just undo all the good work that has been done so far in managing the pandemic. Meanwhile, political analyst Sanusha Naidu spoke to eNCA on expectations and prospects of the lockdown being relaxed. Political analyst Sanusha Naidu speaks to eNCA. Courtesy #DStv403 Analyst Moeletsi Mbeki also weighed in on expectations as he spoke on some organisations calling for the government to allow certain businesses to start operating. eNCA speaks to political analyst Moeletsi Mbeki for more. Courtesy #DStv403 The number of coronavirus cases has risen by 318. The total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in South Africa is now 3,953. COVID-19: Dis-Chem charged for inflating prices Ten more deaths have also been recorded, bringing the total to 75. 