The Tour de France was originally slated to start from Nice with a caravan of around 4,500 people on June 27 and arrive in Paris July 19. PARIS - Tour de France organisers are working feverishly in the shadows to find a new start date for cycling's biggest stage race after public gatherings were banned until mid-July in the latest extension of the French cornavirus lockdown. Originally slated to start from Nice with a caravan of around 4,500 people on June 27 and arrive in Paris July 19, there is no chance the event can go ahead as planned and organisers face a mammoth logistical task of rescheduling. So far organisers Amoury Sports Organisation (AS0) have remained silent publicly, but several mayors of the French towns along the planned route say they have been consulted on the matter of the new date. French President Emmanuel Macron said in a televised address that a strict lockdown in France would continue until at least May 11 and public gatherings were banned until mid-July. Tour director Christian Prudhomme has said previously that riders would need two clear months after the lockdown ended to get ready for the race, which is no longer possible given the May 11 extension. Speculations surround a possible late July start, or mid-August, or even a September race. ASO's reorganisation task is massive for an event with 21 start towns, 21 finish lines and over 3000km (around 2,000 miles) of route and 500,000 roadside fans per day. "Social distancing on the roadside wouldn't be a problem, but in the start towns, at the finish line and in the VIP tents it certainly would," Belgian virologist Marc Van Ranst told Flemish tv station Sporza on Saturday. Suggestions the tour could be held behind closed doors have been ruled out. Fans are a key element of the Tour which is synonymous with the holidays in France, with the party atmosphere popping as the caravan winds its way through the prettiest parts of the country. "The Tour de France is 3000km of smiles," ASO chief Christian Prudhomme has said in reference to the holiday roadside gatherings. "We won't run a Tour de France without the fans."