Volunteer Zanrie Van Jaarsveld touches Mapimpi, an orphaned rhino, at a sanctuary for rhinos orphaned by poaching. HOEDSPRUIT - Looking after an orphaned baby rhino is hard work: you feed them bottled milk at all hours, comfort them through constant fear and bereavement and endure long nights of screaming for the absent mother they witnessed being shot dead by poachers. "The older calves take it really hard. They'll call for their mothers for up to two weeks," said Yolande van der Merwe who helped set up the world's first such orphanage in South Africa's Limpopo province almost a decade ago. "They start bawling and that hits you right in the heart." READ: Slow growth in black rhino numbers cause for hope: conservationists To help manage the workload -- "we can easily pull a 72-hour shift with two to three hours sleep", van der Merwe said -- the Rhino Orphanage has depended on volunteers to fly in from abroad on three-month rotations at the site set amongst thick bush. So when coronavirus panic struck and the latest three foreign volunteers' visas were revoked, they were in a bind. "I was quite worried that we were not going to cope," she said, after Kolisi and Amelia, seven and four months, respectively, slurped noisily from 2-litre bottles of milk formula she was feeding them. READ: SA lockdown: Animal lovers move into shelter Manager and founder Arrie van Deventer, a 66-year-old retired teacher, got on the phone and started making frantic pleas on social media for South Africans to help out. "We were swamped," he said. He picked two volunteers from the several hundred offers. They are now staying put with the four permanent staff since last month's nationwide lockdown imposed by President Cyril Ramphosa. "We have dozens of rhinos that come through here, and 95 percent of them are because of the poaching pandemic," Van Deventer said. The precise number, like the sanctuary's location, are closely guarded secrets in order to protect them from poachers. READ: Science saving rhinos The game reserve adjacent to the orphanage has been attacked, unsuccessfully, twice. Africa's rhino population has been decimated over the decades to feed demand for rhino horn, which, despite being made of the same stuff as hair and fingernails, is prized in East Asia as a supposed medicine and as jewellery.