Parents, students and pupils are still unsure about what lockdown Level 4 means for the education sector. Government was expected to explain this today, but that briefing has been postponed. Sadtu General-Secretary Mugwena Maluleke reiterates that this academic year can still be recovered. #Day32ofLockdown #LockdownEasedRegulations JOHANNESBURG - Teachers' union Sadtu says it believes pupils in some grades will be allowed to return to school. Government was expected to explain how and when schools will resume, but that briefing has been postponed. Parents, students and pupils are still unsure about what lockdown Level 4 means for the education sector. Sadtu released a statement outlining their guidelines for reopening schools under Alert Level 4. READ: Education Department urges pupils to keep learning The statement emphasised health and safety, recommending, "above all, we are concerned about the readiness of the provincial departments with regard to the availability of health and safety essentials that have to be put in place in the learning institutions at least two weeks before any activity can take place." "We need to do our best to avoid widening any existing learning gaps during the remote learning period. READ: Academic year will be saved: Higher Education Department "We hope the ministers will have a moment to read our statement and consider all the minimum requirements we are putting on the table," the statement read. Sadtu General-Secretary Mugwena Maluleke said there is no view towards scrapping the entire academic year, but want to collaborate with the government to make sure the year can be recovered. Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.