PRETORIA - The distribution of water has been centralised, and the command centre will be situated at Rand Water in Johannesburg. Minister of Human Settlement Lindiwe Sisulu says places in need will be identified by municipalities. READ: Some areas to receive water tanks during lockdown: Sisulu She said water tankers will be placed at central points during the lockdown period to facilitate access to clean water during the lockdown. Ministers representing the coronavirus National Command Council (NCC) on Thursday updated the nation on the revised lockdown regulations - Funerals - Cogta Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma said the COVID-19 regulations will continue to be revised in response to the changing conditions of the pandemic. Funerals are not prohibited gatherings during the lockdown. Dlamini-Zuma made clarifications about the regulations, stating people digging the graves are not part of the 50 people allowed to attend the funeral. READ: Large gatherings a concern for COVID-19 spread One of the amendments is that cellphone numbers of passengers using public transport to make it easier to trace passengers. South Africans who are outside the country but want to come back to attend a funeral will be allowed to return. - Contact centre - Communication Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams says government will only be tracing are those who have tested positive for coronavirus. The health department has acquired cellphones that will help trace all COVID-19 cases. - Regulations on cargo goods - Trade and Industry Minister Ebrahim Patel said regulations on cargo goods from other countries has been amended to allow all goods to enter the country so that essential medical supplies can be accessed. READ: Lockdown SA: Transnet to cut transport of non-essential cargo Patel explained suppliers will be accommodated by designated hotels to limit their contact with people from the country. The minister also explained price regulations are currently being amended. - Citizens allowed to re-enter country - Home Affairs Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi said South Africans who are in other countries will be allowed to re-enter the country, provided they have permits allowing them to do so. READ: South Africans repatriated after being stranded in Dubai  - Regulations changed in response to pandemic - Justice and Correctional Services Minister Ronald Lamola restated that the regulations to the lockdown will be changed and strengthened in response to the pandemic. READ: Communities urged to comply with lockdown regulations Lamola said the process of monitoring phone numbers will be overseen by a retired judge, who will still be appointed, to ensure the privacy of citizens. - Lockdown contravention arrests - Police Minister Bheki Cele said 2,289 people have been arrested for contravening COVID-19 lockdown regulations. READ: Over 1,400 arrested in KZN for lockdown breaches Cele said 24,389 law enforcement officers are working hard to ensure compliance with the control measures. The police minister stressed that all provinces must comply with the national regulations and said provinces should not amend the controls. The COVID-19 regulations and amendments may be accessed at http://cogta.gov.za/?p=7871 or https://bit.ly/2X46YJl - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.