President Cyril Ramaphosa says 250,000 food parcels will be distributed over the next two weeks. He's warned that those stealing food packages will face the full might of the law. #Day27ofLockdown Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa says 250,000 food parcels will be distributed over the next two weeks. "We have recognised that the food distribution capacity of government is not adequate to meet the huge need that has arisen since the start of the epidemic," Ramaphosa said. He said Sassa will implement a technology-based solution to roll out food assistance at scale through vouchers and cash transfers to ensure that help reaches those who need it faster and more efficiently. READ: SA Schools providing food to pupils, community "In addition, to fill the immediate need, the Department of Social Development has partnered with the Solidarity Fund, NGOs and community-based organisations to distribute 250,000 food parcels across the country over the next two weeks." He's warned that those stealing food packages will face the full might of the law. "We are deeply disturbed by reports of unscrupulous people abusing the distribution of food and other assistance for corrupt ends," said Ramaphosa. "We will not hesitate to ensure that those involved in such activities face the full might of the law." READ: ANC promises action after councillors accused of looting food parcels Municipal councillors across the country have been accused of breaking lockdown regulations and in some cases stealing essential goods from the poorest of the poor. ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe said all the party's structures have been urged to investigate cases of misappropriation and take action. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.