No travel will be allowed between provinces when the lockdown regulations start easing. If you need to attend a funeral in another province, you will still need a permit. #Day28ofLockdown PRETORIA - President Cyril Ramaphosa announced a gradual reduction of control measures to prevent the spread and reduce the impact of the COVID-19 virus. South Africa's five-week coronavirus lockdown will be slowly eased from next month, Ramaphosa said as he sought a balance between protecting people and letting them "earn a living." Before he addressed the nation, Ramaphosa met virtually with political party leaders for further consultations. The main opposition Democratic Alliance (DA) party hailed Ramaphosa's announcement as a "smart lockdown model". "What is crucial is that any such a phased lifting of lockdown restrictions is accompanied by both a massive increase in testing... and reliable data," added the DA in a statement. READ: Opposition parties react to Ramaphosa's COVID-19 relief plan "We'll most certainly support him in instituting economic reforms that will ensure South Africa emerges from this crisis with the best fighting chance." The Economic Freedom Fighters said they would issue more detailed responses as information is communicated. A statement released on their Twitter page read, "we are limited from making substantial remarks on the announcement because the substantial issues which the President announced will begin on the 1st of May 2020 will only be announced by Ministers in the coming weeks." EXPLAINER: The five alert levels post-lockdown The party did strongly caution against an opening of the economy not based on sound epidemiological science. The EFF stated the government must provide a clear and well-funded plan on how the country should complete the 2020 academic year without exposing pupils and students to potential COVID-19 infection. Freedom Front Plus leader Dr Pieter Groenewald said the risk-analytic approach taken by the government is the right course of action but called for more detail on the regulations at each level. Groenewald said there must be a balance between preventing the spread of the virus and unlocking the economy along with clear communication on what is allowed. EXPLAINER: Ramaphosa's three-point economic COVID-19 relief plan He said Ramaphosa let South Africa down by failing to explain why he deployed the SANDF while he had the opportunity to do so. Political analyst Daniel Silke warned it would be more difficult to lift the lockdown than it was to impose it. "It's not just being unsure of exactly how to tackle this in terms of the regulations," Silke said. READ: WHO warns lifting of coronavirus lockdowns must be gradual "It is unsure what effect it will have on the health of South Africans." "Pressures to ease the lockdown are growing on the ground but that comes against the biggest daily rise in positive cases," he said. Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs. - Additional reporting AFP and Reuters