Brian Baloyi and friends are uplifting the communities where they were all raised. Courtesy #DStv403  JOHANNESBURG - Former Bafana Bafana goalkeeper Brian Baloyi is on a mission to bring some cheer during the national lockdown. Baloyi and friends are uplifting the communities where they were all raised. Through his foundation, the Kaizer Chiefs legend is giving of food parcels and household items to the community of Alexandra, where he was raised. 200 parcels have been put together for the elderly in Alexandra, Tembisa, and Olivenhoutbosch. It’s part of a campaign the former Bafana goalkeeper calls “Adopt-a-block”, a way to be a helping hand to society. “That’s what we’re trying to encourage people, which is just to adopt a block, and whatever little that you can be able to support, five families, 10 families, and it will grow organically when you start having more resources to help, so just that little you can do,” Baloyi said. READ: Sascoc on a mission to clean up damaged reputation The food parcels drive is an extension of Baloyi’s football tournament but, having seen community members struggle for essentials, it was important to be able to do more than just sport. He has been joined by his former onfield arch-rival, ex-Orlando Pirates striker Jerry Sikhosana. “It’s more of generosity. If you look back when you had these people coming to the stadium, to cheer us on when we used to play as heroes, I think now it needs to be the other way round because they can’t afford now to go and be entertained, so it’s our time now to make sure we reach back,” Sikhosana said. With elderly people particularly affected by COVID-19, Baloyi’s foundation is focusing this round of giving on pensioners. READ: FIFA proposes five substitutes when play resumes Spiderman - as Baloyi was affectionately referred to during his heydays between the posts - has encouraged more sports stars who have the means, to help those who need it most. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.