JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa will address South Africans on what they can expect in the coming weeks as the lockdown end date approaches. Ramaphosa is expected to ease the lockdown restrictions. Politicians and experts have agreed that the lockdown has slowed the rate of infection within the population. READ: Chaos if lockdown completely lifted, Dlamini-Zuma tells Parliament But there are also warnings that life as we know it, cannot resume immediately. On Tuesday, Ramaphosa announced an extraordinary R500-billion support package to stimulate the economy and protect millions of South Africans from hunger and social distress during the COVID-19 pandemic. The economic response to the national disaster could be divided into three phases, Ramaphosa said. READ: Ramaphosa announces 6-months coronavirus relief grant The president announced the 21-day lockdown on Monday, 23 March and it officially began on midnight Thursday evening, 26 March. The lockdown was extended for a further two weeks in the early days of April. Over the last week, there’s been a daily average increase of 137 cases. READ: WHO commends SA on COVID-19 response as death toll rises to 65 The biggest jump yet was 251 cases in a single day on 18 April. The week’s total increase was 959. Confirmed infections stand at over 3,400 now with almost 127,000 tests conducted. - Flexibile restrictions - But what could South Africans expect from the president on Thursday? Different business sectors and political parties have called for a measured reopening of the economy. According to a draft government presentation (seen by Reuters), South Africa is considering introducing flexible restrictions on economic activity after it phases out the lockdown. EXPLAINER: Ramaphosa's three-point economic COVID-19 relief plan Ramaphosa's spokesperson Khusela Diko confirmed the document was authentic but said it did not represent the government's final plan. "There have been various iterations and various consultations since this version. The president will announce the risk-adjusted strategy to easing the lockdown when he speaks tomorrow [Thursday]," said. WATCH: 'Lockdown should not be extended but not withdrawn' The draft presentation said an "alert system" comprising five levels would identify which sectors are allowed to operate under different risk scenarios and enable the government to alter restrictions swiftly for different parts of the country. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.