A group of 19 South African doctors has written an open letter to President Cyril Ramaphosa. They are appealing to the president to end the hard lockdown and reopen certain sectors of the economy. Neuroradiology specialist, Dr Ebrahim Kader, one of the 19 doctors, speaks to eNCA. #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - A group of 19 South African doctors has written an open letter to President Cyril Ramaphosa, asking that he end the hard lockdown and to reopen certain sectors of the economy. The doctors say the 21-day lockdown is likely to cause far greater suffering in the short and long-term. "We acknowledge that the hard lockdown was essential, we needed that time to prepare and we needed the public to know just how serious this condition is. READ: Ramaphosa expected to announce eased lockdown conditions "What we are advocating is that at some point we need to return to some sense of normality, for the young, fit people, it is time to get back to work. "We need to get the economy going, we need something to come back to," said neuroradiology specialist, Dr Ebrahim Kader. Kader says easing the lockdown and reopening the economy will be beneficial for the health sector. READ: Ramaphosa announces 6-months coronavirus relief grant "The reality is that COVID-19 is here to stay. The virus is not deadly, like most people are assuming, and if a vaccine comes then it will probably take 18 months. "The reality is that for most coronavirus cases, we have no cure or vaccine. "So at some point, while we are preparing, we are taking heavy loses in the other fronts and we have to get in the game," he said. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.