File: Initial surveys indicate that 60 percent of SMEs are either considering retrenching employees or already have. JOHANNESBURG - The 35-day lockdown period to curb the spread of the COVID-19 coronavirus will have a major impact on the 525,000 small, medium and micro-sized enterprises (SMMEs) in South Africa, putting 6.6 million jobs at risk. This is according to Adrian Gore, a member of the CEO Initiative, chairman of the SA SME Fund, and chief executive officer of Discovery, who said: “Given the lockdown, the vast majority are unable to pay their rent, utilities, and importantly, their employees. “Initial surveys indicate that 60 percent of SMEs are either considering retrenching employees or already have. This is a significant threat to the SA economy, with many millions of jobs at risk.” WATCH: Small businesses COVID-19 fund relief explained The CEO Initiative is supporting the call of Business for SA (BSA) for all large companies to pay their SME creditors by Monday. University of Stellenbosch Business School (USB) visiting lecturer in corporate finance, Brett Hamilton, said the COVID-19 pandemic will lead to business failures, with the SA Reserve Bank estimating an additional 1,600 business insolvencies this year, while the “fattest” – those with the strongest cash reserves – will likely survive. “We find ourselves in one of the most uncertain periods of human history. It is blurring the lines between business, government and society. Policymakers are confronted with an unprecedented, and impossible, trade-off between public health and economic growth. WATCH: Small businesses to receive COVID-19 fund relief “Given the speed and uncertainty under which these complex decisions are made, we have seen unprecedented actions from governments, central banks and businesses. In many cases, governments have overstepped their usual political and ideological boundaries and business has somewhat embraced stakeholders over shareholders. “Fighting the spread of the coronavirus requires ‘big government’ and ‘business with a heart’ to work together – it may be expected and the right thing to do in a crisis, but the question is if these roles will remain after the pandemic,” he said. The latest downgrade by Moody’s of South Africa’s credit rating to sub-investment grade severely restricts the country’s access to debt and has seen a spike in the cost of debt, he said, noting that the South African 10-year government bond yield reached a maximum of 12.36 percent on 24 March compared with a low of 7.9 percent in 2018. READ: Standard Bank gives 3 month 'payment holiday' for small businesses Hamilton said that government intervention should also focus on the ability of the economy to recover after lockdown has lifted – “to ensure that enough businesses remain standing and that people are employed through the crisis to quicken the pace of recovery after the pandemic”. “What is required is the ability for companies to maintain payroll, gain access to debt financing and for central banks to provide the latitude for banks to reschedule loans (possibly with forbearance through credit guarantees)." With South Africa’s “limited fiscal latitude”, external finance would be required and should be accessed from as many sources as possible, including bonds, accessing the capital market, as well as a reliance on development banks such as the IMF.