Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula has done an about-turn on the loading capacity of minibus taxis. He initially announced taxis would be allowed to operate at 100% capacity, provided N95 masks were given to all passengers. But Mbalula now says they'll only be allowed to fill 70% of the vehicle. eNCA's Tshegohaco Moagi is at the Bree taxi rank in Johannesburg. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Government has eased regulations for the taxi industry during the lockdown. This after owners threatened to go on strike. WATCH: No one is immune to COVID-19, says Mbalula Taxis will now be able to operate at 70% capacity. Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula announced on Wednesday that taxis would be allowed to carry full passenger loads, provided that passengers are wearing masks. Following public outcry, Mbalula rescinded on that decision and said it was risky for the passengers. "Our regulations are talking about 70% in terms of the taxis, all-round and that is final. READ: Lockdown rules eased for taxi industry We had included 100% and there was a public outcry to say it doesn't address social distancing and after consultation with regard to that because this is the campaign for the people and you have to listen to the people and engage the stakeholders. So we have agreed on 70%, said Mbalula. Mbalula said he has had several discussions with taxi owners and urges them to comply and respect regulations. "The problem with some of the taxi industry leaders is that they talk this and wake up talking another thing, so from where I am seated with my discussions with them, NTA is happy and SANTACO said they are not happy with 100%. So I have been up and down with them because we came to 70% to try and address and minimise a loss", he added. The minister promised the government would be assisting taxi operators with masks and sanitising equipment, even after the lockdown has been lifted. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.