File: Minister Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma said the amendments will enhance the national integrated response measures and clarify the application of the regulations in funeral arrangements. JOHANNESBURG - South Africans are now allowed to travel to other provinces for funerals. But they will need to obtain a permit and be a close family member of the deceased, said Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. READ: Large gatherings a concern for COVID-19 spread The maximum number of funeral attendants still remains at 50. Dlamini-Zuma said the amendments will enhance the national integrated response measures and clarify the application of the regulations. WEEK IN ONE: Initiation, religious gatherings affected by COVID-19 Only the following persons, who live outside a province or metropolitan and district areas, may attend a funeral: (i) spouse or partner of the deceased; (ii) children of the deceased, whether biological, adopted or stepchildren. (iii) children-in-law of the deceased; (iv) parents of the deceased whether biological, adopted or step parents; (v) siblings, whether biological, adopted or stepbrother or sister of the deceased; (vi) grandparents of the deceased; and (vii) persons closely affiliated to the deceased. The current prohibition of 50 persons attending a funeral is still in operation. The holding of night vigils is still prohibited. The permit may be obtained from: - A Magistrate who is the head of office or - a station commander of a police station or a person designated by him or her In order to obtain a permit: A magistrate who is the head of office or a station commander of a police station or a person designated by him or her must be provided with a death certificate or a certified copy of a death certificate; A permit holder may stay at a hotel, lodge or guest house for the duration of the funeral or cremation. The permit must be presented to the owner or manager of the hotel, lodge or guest house. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.