File: Stuck at home for several weeks, Americans are finding their normally carefully coiffed 'dos growing roots or even transforming into mullets. WASHINGTON - The economy may have slowed and normal life come to a standstill, but in the world of hair, a follicle free-for-all unencumbered by coronavirus has people asking one critical question -- to cut or not to cut? Stuck at home for several weeks, Americans are finding their normally carefully coiffed 'dos growing roots or even transforming into mullets. Rather than despair, many are using their intriguing growth patterns and bird's nest-like locks as an antidote to tragedy, posting jokes, memes, video montages and even helpful video tutorials online. Even The New York Times has gotten in on the act with articles explaining "How to Take Care of Your Hair at Home" and "How to Touch Up Your Roots at Home." Not everyone -- celebrities included -- has seen success. Actor Riz Ahmed of "Rogue One: A Star Wars Story" appeared to have taken a razor to his head with a near buzz cut. "Anyone else do a #StayAtHome haircut that got outta hand?" he posted on Twitter, along with a photo of his new look and a forlorn expression. "Least now feels like there's someone else here when I look in mirror." Anyone else do a #Stayhome haircut that got outta hand? Least now it feels like there’s someone else here when I look in mirror 😅 A post shared by  Riz Ahmed (@rizahmed) on Mar 22, 2020 at 5:36am PDT For child star Julia Butters from "Once Upon a Time... in Hollywood," cutting her father's hair did not end in a happily-ever-after storybook finish, even if the experience -- and extremely patchy looking 'do -- provided a bit of fun. "This is one of the bravest fathers I have ever met," she says as she goes to town on his hair in a video posted online. His response: "There is a thin line between bravery and stupidity." “My dad let me cut his hair.” #haircut #amateur A post shared by  Julia Butters (@julia_butters) on Mar 30, 2020 at 9:53am PDT Most hairdressers live by the adage that it is better to wait for a cut than embark on experiments that will later have to be fixed. "Don't cut your hair! You're going to have more anxiety," celebrity hairstylist Scotty Cunha, who has counted the Kardashians among his clients, said in Page Six Style. This is even more true for chemically dyed hair. READ: Fox News host slammed for talking hair, nails during COVID-19 pandemic "I worry that some of the individuals who put products on their head do not understand the impact of those chemicals," said Leslie Young, vice-president of communication for the Associated Bodywork and Massage Corporation, an organization of workers in the field. According to Young, some people are "so desperate" that they insist on going to their hairdresser's house or having the stylist come to their home. With salons closed, some hairdressers might be tempted to accept, but Young strongly advises against the practice: "It's dangerous," she said, and insurance will not be valid in the event of any issues.