File: President Cyril Ramaphosa. JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa has warned criminals that lawlessness will not be tolerated. In his weekly newsletter, he says it is very unfortunate that criminals are preying on the weak and vulnerable. "It is despicable that criminals are using this period of the lockdown as a cover to break the law at a time when our law-enforcement authorities are occupied with supporting the national effort to contain the pandemic", read the letter. READ: Ramaphosa defends WHO after Trump virus lashing Since the lockdown began, several schools have been burgled, trashed and burnt to the ground. The President also says gender-based violence is a concern and a priority for the government.  "It is despicable that criminals are using this period of the lockdown as a cover to break the law at a time when our law-enforcement authorities are occupied with supporting the national effort to contain the pandemic"  The Interim Steering Committee on Gender-Based Violence and Femicide, in consultation with civil society organisations, is developing guidelines and protocols for GBV management in the context of COVID-19. READ: SA lockdown: SA to roll out at least COVID-19 tests The Police Minister has been tasked with ensuring that Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Units are reinforced at police stations during the lockdown. The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in South Africa has risen to 2,173. No new deaths have been recorded as more than 80,000 tests have been conducted. Health Minister, Zweli Mkhize, says there's been an increase in tests conducted at public laboratories. Twenty-five people have died as a result of COVID-19 in South Africa. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.