File: The Golden Globes is billed as the most raucous event in the showbiz calendar, where success helps create buzz ahead of next month's Oscars. LOS ANGELES - Hollywood's biggest stars gather on Sunday for the glitzy Golden Globes, the first major awards show of a packed season that looks set to mark Netflix's coming-of-age in Tinseltown. The celebrity-filled gala in Beverly Hills is billed as the most raucous event in the showbiz calendar, where success helps create buzz ahead of next month's Oscars. Netflix garnered an overwhelming 34 Globe nominations across film and television categories and is the hot favourite to win several major gongs at the champagne-soaked ceremony. The streaming giant has two frontrunners for the night's top film prize, best drama -- Martin Scorsese's gangster epic "The Irishman" and heart-wrenching divorce saga "Marriage Story." READ: Netflix dominates Golden Globes nominations The firm's Vatican drama "The Two Popes" has four nods, while Eddie Murphy is the favourite to win best comedy actor for the streaming giant's blaxploitation biopic "Dolomite Is My Name." Murphy, making a comeback to the awards circuit, is among a plethora of A-listers enthusiastically campaigning throughout the busy season. British comedian Ricky Gervais returns for a record fifth time to host the ceremony, where his provocative barbs have both riled and delighted Hollywood stars in previous years. Gervais has promised it will be "the very last time" he hosts. READ: Netflix debuts Scorsese's 'Irishman' trailer with De Niro, Pacino While several film categories are too close to call, Quentin Tarantino's "Once Upon a Time... in Hollywood" is tipped to take home the prize for best comedy, according to GoldDerby. Brad Pitt is also a clear frontrunner for his supporting turn in the 1960s Hollywood pastiche, set against the backdrop of the Manson cult murders. Joaquin Phoenix is leading a crowded drama field for his radical turn in dark comic book tale "Joker," while Renee Zellweger is angling hard for the best actress gong with Judy Garland biopic "Judy." Newcomer Apple will be hoping to make waves in the television categories, where its #MeToo drama "The Morning Show" has multiple nominations. But it must fend off Netflix's flagship "The Crown," boasting a new cast led by Oscar winner Olivia Colman.