Cast of the film '1917,' winner of the Best Motion Picture - Drama award, pose in the press room during the 77th Annual Golden Globe Awards. LOS ANGELES - Sam Mendes's "1917," an innovative and deeply personal portrayal of World War I, has exploded into Oscar contention following its dramatic wins at the Golden Globes. The movie -- inspired by tales Mendes's military veteran grandfather told him as a child -- follows two British soldiers on a perilous mission across no man's land. They must risk near-certain death to deliver a vital message ordering a calamitous planned attack on German lines be aborted. The film won best drama, the Globes' most prestigious prize, on Sunday as well as best director for Mendes -- fending off frontrunners such as Martin Scorsese ("The Irishman") and Quentin Tarantino ("Once Upon a Time... in Hollywood.") "It's the biggest team effort ever," co-lead actor George MacKay told AFP moments after the top prize was announced, adding that he was "thrilled, proper thrilled." READ: Disney's 'Star Wars' stays on top, but Sony has a big weekend In a radical filmmaking experiment, Mendes and cinematographer Roger Deakins shot footage that glides from trenches to crater-filled battlefields and through a devastated French town, in what appears to be almost one continuous shot stretching for two hours. "They've never made a film in one continuous take. None of us have," Dean-Charles Chapman, the film's other leading actor, told AFP at a Beverly Hills event hosted by BAFTA, Britain's version of the motion picture Academy. Chapman and MacKay described how they rehearsed the scenes for six months, "reading the scenes in an open field" as they paced out their movements and dialogue until they became muscle memory. Meanwhile, an intricately detailed set of exactly the right scale was constructed around them. "We're walking along stabbing stakes along the floor to mark out -- there's the wall, there's the start, there's the finish," recalled Chapman. "Slowly the set would become a trench, and then we'd adjust the size of the set around the scene. And we'd do that with every single scene -- it took six months to do."