People being evacuated from Mallacoota, Victoria state on a landing craft to MV Sycamore, during bushfire relief efforts. SYDNEY - The Australian navy on Friday began evacuating around 1,000 people stranded on the east coast of the fire-ravaged country as a searing weather front was set to whip up more blazes across the states of Victoria and New South Wales (NSW). At the peak of the summer holiday period, tens of thousands of holidaymakers have been urged to leave national parks and tourist areas on the NSW south coast and eastern areas of Victoria before a return of temperatures above 40C and hot winds on Saturday. Victoria declared a state of disaster for the first time, giving authorities broad powers to compel people to leave their properties and take control of services, similar to the state of emergency that has been declared in NSW. READ: Australia orders evacuation of fire-ravaged towns before heatwave Andrew Crisp, emergency management commissioner for Victoria, urged people in at-risk areas to leave their homes immediately and not count on luck to avoid disaster. "This is your opportunity to get out. It is not just the fires we know. It is the new fires that might start today," he told ABC News. Another death from the fires in NSW was confirmed on Friday, taking the toll in the state this week to eight. Two people have died in Victoria's fires, and 28 others are unaccounted for. READ: Australia scrambles to reach thousands stranded by bushfires The navy's HMAS Choules and Sycamore started the evacuations of around 1,000 of the 4,000 people stranded on a beach in the isolated town of Malla­coota in far-east Victoria, federal member of parliament Darren Chester tweeted on Friday morning. With all roads blocked, sea transport and some airlifts are the only way out of the stricken town. Bushfires so far this season have scorched more than 4 million hectares of bushland and destroyed over 1,000 homes, including 449 homes destroyed on the south coast this week.