File: Chairman of African Rainbow Minerals Patrice Motsepe addresses the Co-Chairs press conference on the second day of the World Economic Forum meeting on Africa, entitled, "Then and now: Reimagining Africa's Future" in Cape Town on June 4, 2015. JOHANNESBURG - Billionaire Patrice Motsepe has apologised for his remarks to US President Donald Trump at the World Enocomic Forum. The business mogul caused outrage on social media last week after telling Trump that Africa loves him. In a clip shared on social media, Motsepe praises Trump during a meeting in Davos, Switzerland. READ: Motsepe sues Botswana newspaper for defamation In a statement released on Tuesday, Motsepe has clarified his remarks and says he has no right to speak on behalf of anyone but himself. "I’m aware of the lively, diverse and at times emotional debate in the global media and on social media relating to my remarks to President Donald Trump at the dinner in Davos during the World Economic Forum," Motsepe said. "As a global philanthropist and business leader, I have for many decades, in South Africa and on the African continent, worked to bring together and unite people of different races, ethnic groups and members of different religious and faith-based organisations. I’ve worked with political, business, societal and other leaders whose views and policies I do not share and will continue to do so in Africa and globally." READ: Blue Bulls welcome Patrice Motsepe Motsepe further stated that his remarks were partly aimed at encouraging discussions between the Trump Administration and African political and business leaders. In conclusion, the mining magnate said Africa and America to a very large extent, share common values and principles and have greater mutual interest than the issues or policies on which they disagree or have different views. "It is in the interest of South Africa and the rest of the African continent to build mutually beneficial socio-political, trade, investment and cultural ties between the economies and people of Africa and America and Africa and the world," Motsepe said.