When buying that first home, find one that’s a fit for your lifestyle and that gives you loads of room to grow. SPONSORED - Should you look for a tiny townhouse with a lock-up-and-go lifestyle that’s just big enough for one (or two at a pinch)? Or should you search for a spacious apartment or sprawling suburban home, so you won’t have to move when your family starts to grow, or when you slow down and suddenly discover an interest in gardening? Our statistics show that the average age of first-time buyers is now around 34, and that would suggest that many, if not most, are planning a lasting commitment to a home with enough bedroom, leg room and garden space to grow a family, and enough living space for easy, at-home entertaining. And this is borne out by the latest report from property data company Lightstone, which shows that the average life span of home ownership for first-time buyers has stretched from seven years in the early 2000s to 12 years currently. There are several reasons for this shift: firstly, there’s the slower rate of growth in property values since the 2008/09 financial crash, which has made it more difficult to sell homes at a hefty profit within a short period. On top of this, buying, selling and then buying again can be quite costly and stressful. As well as the transfer duty, legal fees and bond registration costs for a new home, you have to factor in all those hidden costs – like moving, reconnecting utilities and all the time spent on coordinating the move. Other hidden costs can include new school uniforms, increased insurance and extra security. What’s more, it’s hard not to become emotionally attached to your first home – all those memories! And so, it’s natural to be reluctant to sell, especially if it’s the only home your children have known, and one where you’ve built up strong connections to a community. But if you want a home that’s worth hanging on to, you need to buy right, right from the start. Which can be tricky if you’re young and don’t yet have a family-sized budget! So, the best place to begin is with the biggest deposit. This will not only improve your chances of being approved for a bond, but could also mean that you qualify for a lower interest rate, especially if you apply through a reputable bond originator like BetterBond, who’ll approach SA’s major banks to get you the best possible home loan deal. A lower interest rate means more affordable monthly repayments plus big savings on the total cost of your home over the lifetime of the bond. On, say, a R1m bond taken over 20 years, an interest rate that is just 0.5% lower than the current prime rate of 10% will save you almost R80 000. Meanwhile, first-time property buyers who would love to settle and stay put for a decade or more should look out for the following features:       Being future focused when you buy for the first time could save you a small fortune, and a whole lot of fuss, in the long run. 