AfriForum says it opposes the proposed change to the Constitution, which allows for land expropriation without compensation. It has submitted legal comment on the amendment to Parliament. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - AfriForum says it opposes the proposed change to the Constitution, which allows for land expropriation without compensation. It has submitted legal comment on the amendment to Parliament. There are just two weeks to go until the deadline for public comment on the change. READ: Land reform still a priority: government In 2018, AfriForum tried to stop the amendment process from going ahead, arguing that not all members of the public's comments were counted. AfriForum deputy CEO Ernst Roets says it and its 235 000 members oppose the amendment for several reasons but primarily because amending Section 25 is in violation of the Constitution. "The constitution is the supreme law in the land the consequence of this would be that the constitution’s power is eroded and given to parliament particularly with regard to expropriation. But there are other reasons as well we believe that the amendment exceeds the scope of the committee and also it exceeds the scope of the recommendations made by the committee,” said Roets. WATCH: Thoko Didiza briefs media on land reform But, Roets says the organisation supports restitution. “It’s certainly true that there were grave injustices in this country with it comes to land and those injustices have to be corrected. We believe the first step that needs to be done is to differentiate between restitution and redistribution…. Restitution is to say on this context at least that there was a piece of land that belongs to a particular family and it must be given back and if they don’t want the land back they must receive financial compensation,” he said. “Redistribution is about counting heads of people who own land and look at the colour of their skin and then determine if you are a legitimate owner of the land or not regardless of how they acquired the land.” The public has until 31 January to submit comment on the amendment of Section 25.