The award, which will be launched later next year and be bestowed from 2021, is open to individuals as well as to communities and businesses. LONDON - Prince William announced what was described as "the most prestigious environment prize in history" to encourage new solutions to tackling climate change. The Earthshot Prize will be awarded to five people every year over the next decade, and aims to provide at least 50 answers to some of the greatest problems facing the planet by 2030. They include promoting new ways of addressing climate change and issues surrounding energy, nature and biodiversity, the oceans, air pollution and fresh water. William said the Earth was "at a tipping point" and faced a "stark choice". "Either we continue as we are and irreparably damage our planet or we remember our unique power as human beings and our continual ability to lead, innovate and problem-solve. "Remember the awe-inspiring civilisations that we have built, the life-saving technology we have created, the fact that we have put a man on the moon. People can achieve great things. "The next 10 years present us with one of our greatest tests -- a decade of action to repair the Earth," he said. Who is ready to lead as we make the 2020s a decade of action to repair our planet? Introducing the @EarthshotPrize 🌍 the most prestigious environment prize in history. Led by Prince William and a global alliance, the Earthshot Prize will inspire the the planet’s greatest problem solvers to solve Earth’s greatest problems: the emergencies facing our natural world. Follow @EarthshotPrize to find out more and see the full launch film, narrated by Sir David Attenborough. A post shared by  Kensington Palace (@kensingtonroyal) on Dec 31, 2019 at 3:00am PST "The earth is at a tipping point and we face a stark choice: either we continue as we are and irreparably damage our planet or we remember our unique power as human beings and our continual ability to lead, innovate and problem-solve. •  Remember the awe inspiring civilisations that we have built, the life-saving technology we have created, the fact that we have put a man on the moon. •  People can achieve great things. And the next ten years present us with one of our greatest tests - a decade of action to repair the Earth.” •  Led by Prince William and a global alliance, the @EarthshotPrize will inspire the the planet’s greatest problem solvers to solve Earth’s greatest problems: the emergencies facing our natural world. Take a look at our previous post to see the launch film, and follow @EarthshotPrize to stay updated. Photo 📷 by The Duchess of Cambridge, taken at a glacier in the Hindu Kush mountain range, situated in the Chitral District of Pakistan’s Khyber-Pakhtunkwa Province. A post shared by  Kensington Palace (@kensingtonroyal) on Dec 31, 2019 at 3:25am PST The award, which will be launched later next year and be bestowed from 2021, is open to individuals as well as to communities and businesses. It has the backing of conservation campaigners, groups and scientists, including the veteran British natural history broadcaster David Attenborough. "The spirit of the Moonshot can guide us today as we confront the serious challenges we face on Earth," Attenborough said in a film to mark the launch. "This year Prince William and a global alliance launch the most prestigious environment prize in history... designed to motivate and inspire a new generation of thinkers, leaders and dreamers to think differently."