Kobe Bryant, a five-time NBA champion and two-time Olympic gold medallist, is widely regarded as one of the greatest basketball players in history. LOS ANGELES - NBA legend Kobe Bryant died on Sunday when a helicopter he was riding in crashed and burst into flames in thick fog, killing all nine people on board including his teenage daughter and plunging the sports world into mourning. Bryant (41) was travelling with his 13-year-old daughter Gianna and seven other passengers and crew when their Sikorsky S-76 helicopter slammed into a rugged hillside in Calabasas, west of Los Angeles. There were no survivors. Bryant, a five-time NBA champion and two-time Olympic gold medallist, is widely regarded as one of the greatest basketball players in history, an iconic figure who became one of the faces of his sport during a glittering two-decade career with the Los Angeles Lakers. Dozens of firefighters and paramedics battled across steep terrain to reach the flaming wreckage at the crash site but found no survivors, officials said. The National Transportation Safety Board said an 18-strong team of investigators would be sent to California to probe the causes of the crash. Bryant's death sent shockwaves throughout the world, with basketball stars stunned by the news. "Laker Nation, the game of basketball & our city, will never be the same without Kobe," former Los Angeles Lakers star Magic Johnson wrote on Twitter. Chicago Bulls legend Michael Jordan said Bryant was "like a little brother" to him. "Words can't describe the pain I'm feeling," Jordan said. "We used to talk often and I will miss those conversations very much." At the Staples Center in downtown Los Angeles, several hundred shocked fans gathered to pay tribute as the venue which witnessed many of Bryant's career highlights hosted the music industry's Grammy Awards. Across the NBA, tributes were held at several of the eight games scheduled for Sunday. The crash came only hours after Bryant was passed by current Lakers star LeBron James for third on the all-time NBA scoring list in a Saturday game at Philadelphia. Bryant's final post on social media had been a tweet congratulating James on surpassing him. "Continuing to move the game forward @KingJames," Bryant wrote. "Much respect my brother #33644".