VOSLOORUS - South Africa's depressing economy has left many people without work or hope of ever finding a job as a result, some have resorted to recycling to make a living. READ: Waste pickers key to recycling industry: experts These unwilling entrepreneurs have been praised for helping clean up the environment but their efforts have implications for the people living next to them, especially in townships. A site in Vosloorus, Ekurhuleni is has turned an open field into a base of operations for waste pickers. The waste pickers who work on this site say their income ranges between R3 000 - R5 000 per month.
Of course, many locals also engage in waste picking and recycling to put food on the table. While many have been applauded for what they do, there is another side to this story. Another open field was used to temporarily store recycling material next to a primary school before being moved into the yard. The woman who heads the household not only stores her recyclables on the property but has also allegedly turned the house into a scrapyard and weighs scrap metal for others in the neighbourhood. This is in contravention of the by-laws for residential areas. READ: Construction starts on SA's first plastic road Vosloorus resident, Ntombovuyo Yamela said, "apparently she has a scale for metals, so we had criminals breaking into our homes and stealing from us to come and weigh the items here. When we approached her, she swore at us and got people who complained, arrested."
Some of the neighbours said the tonnes of rubbish stored on the property have created a rodent infestation and the area has become a health and fire hazard.
Zondiwe Motlane says she was arrested four times after she raised concerns with her neighbour.
The woman in question refused eNCA's offer to respond to the allegations.
In the past, the municipality removed the rubbish when it was stored against the primary school fence after residents signed a petition and requested action. The waste was allowed to accumulate over time. Jerry Chaka, the director of Environmental Health said, "we might have faltered in a way because our guys should have monitored whether there is no further recycling taking place…" Chaka said the council would issue a notice giving the business owner seven days to remove the rubbish from her property and move her business elsewhere.