The state capture commission has adjourned for the week. The testimony of Hawks head Godfrey Lebeya has been postponed as well, for further investigation. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - It has been a rocky start to the state capture inquiry's work in 2020. The commission's chairperson Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo has warned that time is of the essence. An incensed Zondo wants the legal team to do proper homework. Proceedings were cut short on Thursday and hearings will only resume next Monday. Zondo slammed Advocate Susan Wentzel over the relevance of a statement from the head of the Hawks Lieutenant General Godfrey Lebeya. He is doubtful the submission falls within the terms of reference. READ: State Capture Inquiry could run until end of 2020 In his papers, Lebeya implicated former national police commissioner Riah Phiyega. "Has she been approached and it's wrong that she has not been approached. The legal team is wrong not to have done that, the investigators are wrong not to have done that but more than the investigators I blame the legal team because the legal team must guide the investigators," Zondo said. "When they read the statement, they see all of these things. But more than anything members of the legal team must ask with regard to each witness, 'how does this witness fall into the terms of reference?' For each witness, that question must be asked and no member of the legal team should not be ready to deal with that question. "Now if Ms Phiyega says as you said she has said it was because of personal differences, it goes back to the questions I was raising to say the way that Dr Lebeya was ill-treated as reflected in the statement can it be said that it falls within the Terms of Reference of the Commission. Was it corruption, was it fraud, was it state capture? Or could it be that maybe she just didn't like him for whatever reason which may be wrong itself but not everything that is wrong falls within the Terms of Reference of the Commission. The legal team should do this. "We shouldn't have a situation where a day has been set aside for me to hear the evidence of a witness and then we can't hear because the day is wasted because there is a problem whether the evidence of the witness evidence falls within the Terms of Reference of the Commission."