The story for the film, which follows two British soldiers who must cross no-man's land to deliver a vital message to abort a planned attack on German lines, comes directly from Sam Mendes' own family history. PARIS - Sam Mendes says that "1917" is his "most personal" film, and it could yet be his most praised after it ripped up the form books to win him best film and best director at the Golden Globes earlier this week. His adrenalin-filled World War I epic, which the British director shot as if it was one continuous take, could yet match the five Oscars his debut feature "American Beauty" picked up in 2000. "It was clearly a technical challenge," Mendes told AFP before his unexpected triumph, with Martin Scorsese's "The Irishman" seemingly the clear favourite to clean up at the Globes, which open the Hollywood awards season. In a radical filmmaking experiment, Mendes and cinematographer Roger Deakins shot footage that glides from trenches to crater-filled battlefields and through a devastated French town. READ: '1917' advances on Oscars contention after big Globes wins The story for the film, which follows two British soldiers who must cross no-man's land to deliver a vital message to abort a planned attack on German lines, comes directly from Mendes' own family history. His grandfather, the Trinidad-born writer Alfred Mendes, was given a similar almost suicidal mission when he served as a rifleman in Flanders, where he won a Military Medal. Mendes' idea for the film came from "listening to my grandfather (as a child) tell stories of his experiences. "He told one particular story of carrying a message" across the battlefield, and "that became the basis for this", he added. "But then everything after that was invented or based on real accounts of the war, first-person accounts, letters, and diaries of other people. "I suppose it is my most personal (film) because it comes directly from me. I'd never written a script for a film before," said the maker of the last two "Bond" sagas, "Skyfall" and "Spectre".