File: There are some countries that are attractive to South African wallets because of their average currency rate over the last six months. JOHANNESBURG - Global fluctuations can make some countries very expensive, and often without much warning. But there are some countries that are attractive to South African wallets because of their average currency rate over the last six months. Sri Lanka The average exchange rate is R1 gets you about 12.27 Sri Lankan rupees, making it an affordable holiday destination. You can expect to pay R110 for an standard meal, with accommodation costing about R272 per night. 
According to Lonely Planet, Sri Lanka is a beach lover’s paradise. 
“There are long, golden-specked ones, there are dainty ones with soft white sand, there are wind- and wave-battered ones, and ones without a footstep for miles.
“Some have a slowly, slowly vibe and some have a lively party vibe, but whichever you choose, the beaches of Sri Lanka really are every bit as gorgeous as you’ve heard. In a land where beaches are simply countless, consider the beaches of Tangall each with its own personality, and each beguiling in its own way, yet all easily visited in a day.” 
Other options to include in your itinerary are visiting Uda Walawe National Park where you can see buffalo, elephant and sambar deer, go birdwatching or just enjoy the beauty of being outdoors in nature. You may also find it a memorable experience to visit one of Sri Lanka’s ayurvedic spas.  Zanzibar Zanzibar is a Tanzanian archipelago off the coast of East Africa. Spots to consider visiting, include Stone Town, a historic trade centre with Swahili and Islamic influences. Here you can see 19th-century landmarks, such as the House of Wonders which is a former sultan’s palace. 
For delicious seafood, fine sand beaches and some African history, TravelStart recommends Zanzibar as an affordable destination.
“With regular flights available from Mango, you’ll find getting to Zanzibar sweet and simple. Expect from R4,200 return and often you can get great last-minute deals to this cheap holiday destination, right on our doorstep. Local beers cost R32 for a draught and a cappuccino is a bit pricier at R30.50.
“Stick to the tasty local curries and your holiday will be cheap, cheerful and rand-stress-free.”  Lisbon Wander charming cobbled streets, pause at steep miradouros (viewpoints), hop on a tram and marvel at beautiful old buildings, then stop for a delicious pastry and traditional espresso.
Anticipate paying R25 a cappuccino and R33 a local beer. To get there, budget for R7,000 for return flights from Johannesburg, and around R25 for a cappuccino and about R33 for a local beer. 
While in the city, Travelstart recommends that you blend in with the locals, and drink some ginja. 
“Portugal’s famous, sweet cherry liqueur, made by infusing ginja berries with alcohol, is much loved and can be found in small nooks of neighbourhoods or small stalls, struggling to stay up between the cobble stones. Enjoy a quick shot-on-the-go, usually served in a dark chocolate cup which you eat afterwards, along with the single berry, removing any aftertaste.” 