South Africa's most famous exotic dancer, Gigi, reveals all in her new memoir, Nipple Caps, and G-strings. The young Perle van Schalkwyk was born into a strict Jehovah's Witness family, but she had a dream to make it big. She talks to Nandi Tshabalala about how she survived and thrived as a dancer, who now owns the Lollipop lounge. #eNCA Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - South Africa's most famous exotic dancer, Gigi, reveals all in her new memoir, Nipple Caps and G-Strings. Gigi was born Perle van Schalkwyk, the first of three daughters to very strict Jehovah's Witness parents. A ballet dancer from an early again, she dreamt of making it big. She also had dreams of owning a house on the hill, in the Overberg, overlooking the sea. Gigi went on to study drama at Stellenbosch University. She auditioned for the Performing Arts Council of the Transvaal (PACT) and was chosen to join the State Theatre in Pretoria, working for a salary of R188 per week. Living in Hillbrow and struggling to survive, she realised acting would not give her her dream. So, she turned to exotic dancing and stripping. READ: Anxiety in Johannesburg: New views on a global south city In her book, she takes readers into her confidence about how she survived and thrived as a dancer, who now owns the Lollipop Lounge. Open and generous with information, Gigi does not skimp on the details. Tales of drugs, murder and porn lace her fascinating life, along with stories of courage and cunning in the sexist underworld. Speaking to eNCA, Gigi says she initially had planned to write her memoir in 2010. But with a lot of time on her hands, thanks to the lockdown, she got cracking. "I was dancing for a dream," she says. "I danced for 16 years and I have the Lollipop Lounge now for the same amount of time and I was proud to be a dancer," she adds. While many would have shied away from exotic dancing, Gigi always saw it as a career and has become an inspiration to many others following her path. For more, watch the interview above.