Ace Magashule will be appearing before the governing party's Integrity Commission Saturday. He's currently facing 21 charges of corruption, fraud, and money laundering. This is linked to the controversial asbestos project in the Free State. Govan Whittles has more. #eNCA Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - After two decades, the governing party's integrity commission will finally confront ANC Secretary-General, Ace Magashule this weekend but his appearance may be futile, as the commission can only make recommendations to the NEC.
Magashule served as ANC Free State chairperson for nearly a decade before former president Jacob Zuma appointed him as premier. READ: Magashule to appear before ANC's Integrity Committee This is when the ANC hardliner allegedly secured a stake of nearly every government tender in the province - and earned the nickname: "Mr. Ten Percent".
Magashule denies this and says anyone with evidence, should speak up.
Magashule said, "anybody who says I am corrupt should get this platform now and let them be called to give evidence. And let the South African people judge who's corrupt and who is not corrupt." "I think this is a very clear agenda to weaken us, narrow the base of the ANC. It's not just about dealing with me. People have tried for many years, these days we are even afraid to drink tea, to drink water because we know the agenda, people have tried to finish some of us." Last month, Magashule appeared in court to answer for the lack of oversight of one such deal: the R220-million asbestos project. 
Now he is the ANC's Secretary-General and wields massive influence in the organisation.
The integrity commission's recommendations on Magashule will be sent to the NEC, which will decide what to do with the report. READ: ANC NEC to look at constitutionality of members stepping aside This has led to the commission's effectiveness being questioned.
Magashule said, "it has been effective, they've been doing their work. You've seen when people were supposed to go to parliament, there were issues and they dealt with those issues. And the ANC managed to deal with those issues. You deal with issues not just legally but also politically."
It appears the ANC NEC will decide Magashule's fate.