File: American music legend Bob Dylan, who burst onto the folk scene in New York in the early 1960s, has sold more than 125 million records around the world. AFP/Philippe Lopez NEW YORK - Universal Music has bought the entire back catalogue of Bob Dylan's songs in a purported nine-figure deal for one of the most prized rights' collections in music history. The deal covers more than 600 song copyrights spanning 60 years, including "Blowin' In The Wind," "The Times They Are a-Changin'," "Like A Rolling Stone," "Lay Lady Lay" and "Forever Young," Universal Music said in a statement. The music company gave no financial details of the purchase but the Financial Times reported it was a "nine-figure deal." The New York Times estimated the price at more than $300-million. "The deal is the most significant music publishing agreement this century and one of the most important of all time," Universal Music said in its statement. Dylan, who burst onto the folk scene in New York in the early 1960s, has sold more than 125 million records around the world. READ: Bob Dylan releases first original album in almost a decade His songs, which include some of the most popular ever written, still feature in movies and in advertisements decades after they were released. The US folk and rock legend's songs are also frequently covered by other artists, generating massive royalties. Before the pandemic brought live performances to a halt, the 79-year-old was still regularly performing in concert. Dylan won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 2016 "for having created new poetic expressions within the great American song tradition." In June this year, Dylan released his first album of original songs in eight years with the 10-track "Rough and Rowdy Ways." It was his 39th studio album and came 58 years after the release of his first. The album features a 17-minute ballad about the assassination of John F Kennedy, as well as a tribute to American electric bluesman Jimmy Reed. Rolling Stone magazine hailed it as an "absolute classic," calling it one of Dylan's "most timely albums ever."