Receptionists work at the Sintonia restaurant inside the Hotel Gallery in Barcelona. Barcelona has seen most of its hotels close as the pandemic has kept tourists away. AFP/Pau Barrena BARCELONA - Hugely popular with international visitors, Barcelona has seen most of its hotels close as the coronavirus pandemic has kept tourists away, and the few that remain open have had to repurpose themselves to stay afloat. Some have adapted their premises to suit telecommuters, while others have dropped the price for long-term stays in order to compete with the traditional rental market. Still others are offering a deluxe experience to residents who, unable to travel, get to play the tourist in their own city. READ: Tourist arrivals to Spain slump Among long-term "guests" at the Gallery Hotel are couples whose homes are being renovated and people who were going to move abroad but found their relocation put on hold because of the pandemic. Shuttered by the pandemic in March, the hotel reopened in October after being refitted for distance working with shared working spaces and rooms converted into offices with a desk instead of a bed for those who cannot concentrate at home. Although they are making just a fraction of what they would have done in a normal year, the income goes some way to compensating for the losses incurred by the pandemic, "providing the staff with jobs, and meaning less money lost", Golobardes says. READ: Why is Spain once again on the frontline of the pandemic? Several hotels have taken a similar approach, offering rooms for as little as 600 euros a month, which is cheaper than renting a studio in Barcelona. Others are offering a taste of luxury, with one hotel, the Ohla, promising a free overnight stay for those paying to have dinner in its Michelin-starred restaurant. The pandemic has caused "tragedy" in a city that last year welcomed 9.5 million visitors, says Jordi Mestre, head of the Gremio de Hoteles representing the hotel and tourist accommodation sector in the Barcelona area. More than 75 percent of hotels remain closed and the few that are open barely manage an occupancy rate of 10 percent, leaving many on the verge of bankruptcy and attracting vulture funds.