Surpassing 1 million COVID-19 cases - and non-compliance sent South Africa back to Lockdown Level 3. On Monday President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that the surge in cases during the festive season forced government's hand. #eNCA Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Surpassing 1 million COVID-19 cases - and non-compliance sent South Africa back to Lockdown Level 3. On Monday President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that the surge in cases during the festive season forced government's hand. Ministers of the National Coronavirus Command Council have explained what some of these measures mean for South Africans. First on the list in trying to contain the spread, is an extension to the curfew from 6am to 9pm. READ: SUMMARY: SA to move to Level 3 Lockdown from midnight Within the curfew, restaurants are allowed to operate at 50% capacity and with 1.5 metres between people. Places of accommodation will remain open, but many attractions have been red-taped. "The beaches are closed in the Western Cape, in the Eastern Cape and KZN. They are closed for everything, expect for fisherman. Northern Cape is the only place where people can go to the beach", said Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. READ: Mask laws 'not an idle threat' The closure also extends to any gatherings such as parties and events, but places of worship will still be open while observing 50% capacity and social distancing. The regulations will be in place until 15 January and South Africans will have to accept them. Health Minister Zweli Mkhize says a vaccine is expected in 2021 and that frontline workers will be prioritised when distribution begins. He says until everyone can get vaccinated, the way to fight COVID-19 is to follow regulations. READ: All SA Beaches closed except for the Northern Cape Those found flouting the rules, such as not wearing a mask in public, will be arrested and prosecuted. The amended Level 3 regulations will be reviewed after two weeks, based on the infection rate. Watch the video above for more details on this story.