Cricket South Africa might have to reconsider, how it will address its transformation challenges following the abandoning of the Social Justice and Nation-Building project, just months after its launch. eNCA's Hloni Mtimkulu reports. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Cricket South Africa might have to reconsider, how it will address its transformation challenge following the abandoning of the Social Justice and Nation-Building project, just months after its launch.
The Social Justice and Nation-Building initiative was established in August following revelations about racism in South African cricket. It was meant to be CSA's way of dealing with exclusion in the sport, and reparations but the project has now been shelved for various reasons, not least, its cost. READ: CSA: Proteas not taking the knee was a missed opportunity CSA Interim Board chairperson Zak Yacoob said, "the troubles were that it was a hastily-designed project, it was going to cost more than R20-million over the next three years, it talked about reparation to players after 1991 and we really wondered what that 1991 deadlines was because, in our view, people had suffered a great deal in relation to cricket and in need of reparation before 1991."
It's not just the interim board that had concerns. The Black African Cricket Clubs question how financial compensation for past wrongs would have worked.
Black African Cricket Club's Ntsongo Sibiya said, "we can't be growing going back, we have to grow going forward. If there's any money that CSA feels is appropriate, it needs to then be invested in the future, in making sure that transformation happens in the future."
Sibiya hopes cricket can takes lessons from rugby on changing people's attitudes.
"I so wish our Director of Cricket can take notes from Rassie and just to say embrace the concept, make sure that people around the issue are comfortable around the issue, because most of the time, people are not comfortable around transformation." "What we're saying is, the team has to transform, the question is how do you execute on that transformation charter, or on your transformation strategy to make sure that team represents what South Africa is."
Meanwhile, despite dropping the initiative, the interim board is clear it is not against transformation.
Yacoob said, "we're completely for transformation, we understand that transformation is absolutely essential, what we have got to make certain is that what is done in the name of transformation is absolutely done, and we were not sure that this particular project cut it."
Yacoob said they have left it up to the incoming board to decide whether to continue with the Social Justice and Nation-Building project or not.