Britain left the EU on 31 January 2020 after five decades of integration but a standstill transition period, under which it remains bound by the bloc's rules pending any new deal, ends on the night of 31 December 2020. AFP/Tolga Akmen LONDON - Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said Britain should prepare for a "no-deal" Brexit, even as UK and EU negotiators indicated a last-minute free trade agreement could be reached. With just over two weeks to go until Britain leaves the EU single market, preparations have been stepped up as fears grow about the impact of customs checks and congested ports. A no-deal would mean Britain trading with the EU on World Trade Organization terms, with tariffs and quotas. "The most immediate impact arising from a no-deal is likely to be food supplies, where there probably will be some shortages and some price rises," Jonathan Portes, professor of economics and public policy at King's College, London, told AFP. With supply chains uncertain, the British Retail Consortium trade association said supermarkets were increasing stocks of tinned goods, dried pasta and toilet rolls. READ: Equities mixed as stalled stimulus, Brexit talks offset vaccines Concerns are rising over the supply of perishable fresh fruit and vegetables, much of which is imported from EU countries. Justin King, former boss of supermarket giant Sainsbury's, told BBC radio that "fresh food can cope with a blip", but not "persistent, pervasive delays. "That's the thing people are worried about." Business have been urged to plan for a no-deal and secure supply chains. But as talks drag on, they are still in the dark about how trade will be conducted with Britain's biggest export market. READ: Asian markets drop as talks on stimulus, Brexit falter again "There are two sorts of uncertainty," said Portes. "One is uncertainty about what the rules are, and another uncertainty is about whether, actually, the new systems that are being put in place are going to be up to the job. "The best guess at the moment is that there will be some disruption but it won't be catastrophic. "However, deal or no-deal, the medium- to long-term economic consequences of major new trade barriers with the EU are going to be very significant."