File: The cocoa boards of Ivory Coast and Ghana have publicly accused US chocolate giants Mars and Hershey of sidestepping a deal designed to shore up income for poor farmers. Pixabay/dghchocolatier ABIDJAN - The world's two biggest cocoa suppliers have taken a tussle with chocolate multinationals to the battlefield of public opinion. In an unprecedented move, the cocoa boards of Ivory Coast and Ghana have publicly accused US chocolate giants Mars and Hershey of sidestepping a deal designed to shore up income for poor farmers. Both companies deny the charges. At stake is a 2019 arrangement called the living income differential, or LID, under which multinationals pay a premium of $400 above market price for each tonne of cacao, the raw material for chocolate. In a joint letter, Ivory Coast's Coffee Cocoa Council (CCC) and the Ghana Cocoa Board (Cocobod) accused Hershey of reportedly making a large purchase of cocoa on the futures market. READ: Cocoa prices soar as producers and processors clash The move, they charged, "clearly indicates your intention to avoid paying the living income differential." The two boards said they had "been left with no choice but to cancel all sustainability programmes with which your company is involved". These schemes certify that the chocolate is ethically produced, which lets the firms to embellish their image with consumers. Production must avoid deforestation and be free of child labour. In a separate statement, the CCC and Cocobod accused Mars of modifying its cocoa butter procurement processes to avoid paying the LID, a scheme supported by the campaign group Fairtrade. The CCC and Cocobod condemned what they called Hershey's and Mars' "clear breach of faith" in the LID scheme. READ: Ghana and Ivory Coast lift threat to suspend cocoa supplies In a statement to AFP, Hershey's said it was "unfortunate" that the countries had decided to "distribute a misleading statement... and jeopardise such critical programmes that directly benefit cocoa farmers". Mars Wrigley said it "categorically disagrees" with any suggestion that it had switched cocoa buying practices to avoid paying the LID, and said it had long supported the initiative. Analysts said the joint public attack was remarkable. Until now, the CCC and Cocobod have been virtually invisible to the general public, and their allegations about trades have shed light on a cocoa market that is notoriously opaque. The world's chocolate market is estimated to be worth more than $100-billion, concentrated in a small number of multinational corporations. Ivory Coast accounts for more than 40 percent of global output, and Ghana at least 20 percent of it. More than half of their growers live below the poverty line, according to estimates.