Britain formally left the EU in January, nearly four years after a referendum on membership that divided the nation and paralysed its politics. AFP/Tolga Akmen LONDON - With just a month until Britain's post-Brexit future begins and trade talks with the European Union still deadlocked, the UK government urged firms to prepare as it scrambles to finish essential infrastructure. But uncertainty is widespread over what arrangements will be in place when the country's new chapter starts on 1 January and the precise approach to trade rules the government will adopt. In a letter to businesses, ministers have warned time is running out before the end-of-year deadline for them to finalise preparations and avoid potential disruption. READ: Brexit talks halt for 'short period' due to virus case Britain formally left the EU in January, nearly four years after a referendum on membership that divided the nation and paralysed its politics. But it remains bound by the bloc's rules until 2021 under the terms of its divorce. Negotiations on a free trade deal, which continue in London this week, have been stalled for months and are running out of time. READ: Feuding in Downing Street as UK faces COVID-19, Brexit challenges The government insists Britain will prosper with or without an agreement. "Regardless of the outcome of our negotiations with the EU, there are guaranteed changes that businesses must prepare for now," said senior minister Michael Gove. "There is no time to lose." Businesses have complained of inadequate preparations and contingency planning, with accusations that ministers are underestimating the sheer scale of the challenge ahead. READ: UK PM gives October 15 deadline for Brexit deal Deal or no deal, increased red tape in the form of customs declarations and permits will replace largely seamless transportation of goods to and from the EU. Gove's Cabinet Office department, which is in charge of Brexit preparations, conceded Tuesday the changes "will likely mean that there is short-term disruption at the border". But it said a newly launched Border Operations Centre, to be manned around the clock, would help deliver "the world's most effective border by 2025". The facility will utilise software to gather information about the flow of goods and passengers in real-time, as well as analyse historical trends and have the predictive capability.