ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa talked tough at the party's last NEC meeting of the year. Courtesy of #DStv403 PRETORIA - ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa says the party has proven critics wrong and divisions in the governing party have narrowed. He delivered the closing remarks following the ANC's National Executive Committee meeting. READ: Ramaphosa calls for unity in ANC The meeting agenda spanned some difficult issues with the potential to deepen factional divisions in the party, according to Ramaphosa. "I wish to commend all members of the NEC for the comradely manner in which these discussions have taken place. Comrades have been frank and direct and have sought to persuade each other through the strength of their arguments," he said. "The discussions have been underpinned by the desire to find a solution to the challenges that face us. Once again, we have proven many commentators and other public voices wrong. We have not torn ourselves apart or descended into bitter recrimination." He said the party has narrowed divisions within the party. READ: ANC has been infiltrated: Magashule Ramaphosa urged party members to desist from making public statements that are inconsistent with the decisions of the party. "We must also acknowledge that there are some among us who, wittingly or unwittingly, contribute to a public discourse that is damaging to the unity and cohesion of the NEC and the movement." Ramaphosa said the state of the local economy, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic's devastating effects, was a large topic under scrutiny. "We have also noted with concern the deteriorating fiscal situation in the country,  with debt payments absorbing a growing share of limited public resources, and increasingly crowding out spending on social and economic investment." The president said the ANC is committed to responsible fiscal management and emphasised the importance of the economic empowerment of women and local economic development. Ramaphosa also spoke on the party's concern about the resurgence of COVID-19 infections in provinces around the country and called on South Africans to take precautions against the virus. READ: Matric Rage gatherings identified as COVID-19 superspreader events "We will, in particular, call on people to avoid parties and large crowds, to restrict family gatherings, to wear a mask at all times, wash and keep social distance, and to protect the elderly from possible exposure to the virus." Ramaphosa confirmed that ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashle will appear before the party's integrity committee next week in connection with his alleged involvement in corrupt activities during his tenure as Free State Premier. READ: ANC needs to act on those accused of corruption: analyst "We will be consistent and even-handed in the application of these decisions and will ensure that fair and due process is followed." He said party resolutions must be implemented within the party ranks and not be diluted. The NEC has agreed that guidelines will be finalised to be applied in instances where members of the organisation are formally charged with, convicted of or reported to be involved in corruption or other serious crimes. Ramaphosa cautioned ANC members against attacking the work of the State Capture Commission and participating in behaviour that brings disrepute to the party.