 SPONSORED - Many people dream of owning their first home but often, affordability and costs associated with buying a home can put an abrupt halt to that dream. While the novel-coronavirus had a devastating effect on the economy at large, one good thing that did emerge out of the crisis is the favourable interest rate environment that is enabling many more South Africans to enter the market for the first time. Absa has also seen an increase in the number of home loan applications month-on-month from June 2020 as a result of the pent-up demand and these favourable buyer-side variables. Taking the leap to own a home…. Buying a home is probably the biggest financial decision that most will ever make in their lives. Before taking that leap to homeownership, it is important to assess your needs and to understand the different costs involved with becoming a property owner. A good starting point is to decide what type of property will work for you and your family and also what price bracket you’d be looking at and can afford.  Are you looking for a free-standing home? How important is security? Do you want to be close to malls, schools and places of worship? Are you willing to abide by the rules of sectional title complexes? Once you’ve answered those questions, you’ll be in a better position to start your house hunt. When buying a home, don’t forget to include municipal bills, rates and taxes, maintenance costs, insurance, bond registration and transfer costs in your calculations. Many buyers become fixated on the purchase price and monthly bond instalment, but forget about all the extras – which could have dire financial implications. On the plus side – you are investing in your own asset, where you can build and redecorate to your heart’s content (within municipal or sectional title rules and regulations of course). We make it easy. . . Absa understands that buying a home can be daunting and therefore sets out to arm its customers with as much information as possible to make the property purchasing process as simple and hassle-free as possible. Absa is committed to enabling customers to realise their dream of homeownership by enabling access to housing finance and empowering potential homeowners to make the right financial decision before and after buying a home. Whether you bank with Absa or not, Absa has educational as well as pre-buying tools that are accessible from one’s smartphone:  Absa prides itself on transparency and putting customers first. To learn more visit: https://absamyhomeownerjourney.co.za/public/ Terms and conditions apply. Authorised Financial Services Provider.  Registered Credit Provider Reg No NCRCP7.