Nurse May Parsons (R) administers the Pfizer/BioNtech COVID-19 vaccine to Margaret Keenan at University Hospital in Coventry, central England. AFP/Jacob King COVENTRY - Nurses cheered as an elderly British grandmother became the first person in the Western world to receive an approved vaccine against COVID-19, at the start of a marathon campaign health officials hope heralds a fight-back against the global pandemic. Margaret Keenan called the jab she received at a hospital in Coventry, central England, "the best early birthday present" before she turns 91 next week, and urged others to follow suit. "My advice to anyone offered the vaccine is to take it. If I can have it at 90 then you can have it too," she said. "I feel so privileged to be the first person vaccinated against COVID-19," added Keenan, a former jewellery shop worker who has two children and four grandchildren. READ: WHO warns virus crisis not over as vaccine rollout approaches UK regulators last week became the first in the world to approve the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for general use, and the first jabs were administered across the country from early Tuesday morning. Britain has been one of the worst-affected countries in the world, with more than 61,000 deaths in the outbreak from 1.6 million cases. Keenan received the jab in front of cameras and received a guard of honour from clapping medics as she was wheeled back to her bed. Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who spent days in intensive care with COVID-19 earlier this year, called it "a tremendous shot in the arm for the entire nation". READ: UK approves Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for rollout from 'next week' But with most people not expected to get vaccinated until early 2021, he said the public still needed to be careful to stop the spread of the virus. "We can't afford to relax," he said on a visit to a central London hospital. Regulatory approval for the vaccine was given last Wednesday, sparking a race against time to prepare scores of vaccination centres across the country. The UK has ordered 40 million doses of the jab -- enough to vaccinate 20 million people -- with 800,000 in the first batch. Up to four million doses are expected by the end of December.