President Cyril Ramaphosa says the COVID-19 figures are a cause of great concern. There can no longer be any doubt that South Africa has entered a second wave of COVID-19 infections. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa said South Africans' failure to comply with non-pharmacological COVID-19 measures has brought upon the second wave of infections. "We've gotten into the festive spirit early and are inviting friends and family over to get-togethers and this is what is spreading the virus. It is our failure to adhere to all these basic precautions at all times that has brought us to this second wave." The president said it has been gatherings – especially social gatherings and parties – that are the largest source of outbreaks. READ: What we know about COVID-19 vaccines and side effects The daily average of new cases nationally over the last seven days is 74 percent higher than the previous seven days. The number of new cases has increased from a daily average of around 3,800 to just over 6,600 a day. Cabinet has therefore decided that further restrictions will be imposed from midnight on Monday. The hours of the national curfew will be extended from 11pm to 4am. Non-essential establishments, including restaurants and bars, will be required to close at 10pm. The sale of alcohol from retail outlets will only be permitted between 10am and 6pm from Monday to Thursday. Nationally there will be stricter enforcement of existing Level 1 restrictions throughout the country during the festive season and beyond. COVID-19: South Africans urged to be more responsible According to the president, the following regulations will be implemented: Ramaphosa said one of the greatest challenges is the huge crowds flocking to beaches. The president said in areas with the highest rate of infection beaches and public parks will be closed from 16 December to 3 January 2021. Beaches and parks that are open to the public will only be open between 9am and 6pm. READ: 948 pupils test positive for COVID-19 after Rage event The situation will be monitored daily by local authorities to ensure compliance with the regulations on gatherings and the prohibition of alcohol. In instances where there are large crowds or poor compliance with safety measures, specific beaches and recreational parks will be closed. The beaches and public parks of the Northern Cape and the Western Cape, with the exception of the Garden Route, will remain open to the public over the festive season. Festivals, live music and live performances at beaches are prohibited. "We will not allow large numbers of people congregating in any one place without proper controls or protocols in place," the president said. The festive season restrictions will be reviewed in early January based on the state of the pandemic across the country. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs