Singer Duffy arrives for the Brit awards at the Earl's Court exhibition centre in West London on February 18, 2009. The annual event looks to honour successful artists from the British music scene over the previous year. LONDON - The Welsh soul singer Duffy on Tuesday attributed her long musical hiatus to an alleged violent assault that saw her  "raped and drugged and held captive over some days". The Grammy winner, who in 2011 said she was "taking a break" from the public spotlight, said in an emotional Instagram post that "I am ok and safe now" but that recovery "took time". "There's no light way to say it. But I can tell you in the last decade, the thousands and thousands of days I committed to wanting to feel the sunshine in my heart again, the sun does now shine," the 35-year-old posted. "You wonder why I did not choose to use my voice to express my pain? I did not want to show the world the sadness in my eyes. I asked myself, how can I sing from the heart if it is broken? And slowly it unbroke." READ: Rape map and murdered women: Welcome to SA's Republic of Sexual Abuse The singer-songwriter found global fame after releasing her debut album "Rockferry" in 2008, which won a Grammy for Best Pop Vocal Album. In 2009, the artist born Aimee Anne Duffy also won three Brit awards. She said in Tuesday's social media post that she had decided to break her silence over her trauma after giving an interview to an unnamed journalist last summer, and would begin "posting a spoken interview" in the weeks to come. "If you have any questions I would like to answer them, in the spoken interview, if I can," she said. "I have a sacred love and sincere appreciation for your kindness over the years. You have been friends." In 2013 the singer performed in an Edith Piaf tribute concert in New York, and contributed music to and played a role in the 2015 film "Legend". You can only imagine the amount of times I thought about writing this. The way I would write it, how I would feel thereafter. Well, not entirely sure why now is the right time, and what it is that feels exciting and liberating for me to talk. I cannot explain it. Many of you wonder what happened to me, where did I disappear to and why. A journalist contacted me, he found a way to reach me and I told him everything this past summer. He was kind and it felt so amazing to finally speak. The truth is, and please trust me I am ok and safe now, I was raped and drugged and held captive over some days. Of course I survived. The recovery took time. There’s no light way to say it. But I can tell you in the last decade, the thousands and thousands of days I committed to wanting to feel the sunshine in my heart again, the sun does now shine. You wonder why I did not choose to use my voice to express my pain? I did not want to show the world the sadness in my eyes. I asked myself, how can I sing from the heart if it is broken? And slowly it unbroke. In the following weeks I will be posting a spoken interview. If you have any questions I would like to answer them, in the spoken interview, if I can. I have a sacred love and sincere appreciation for your kindness over the years. You have been friends. I want to thank you for that x  Duffy Please respect this is a gentle move for me to make, for myself, and I do not want any intrusion to my family. Please support me to make this a positive experience. A post shared by @ duffy on Feb 25, 2020 at 10:12am PST