Kirk Douglas never lost his popularity, taking on nearly 100 movies over a six-decade career that endured beyond a severe stroke in his later years. LOS ANGELES - Kirk Douglas, one of the last superstars of Hollywood's golden age of cinema who was renowned for his intense, muscular performances in "Spartacus" and "Paths of Glory," died on Wednesday aged 103. The US leading man, producer and director came to prominence in the late 1940s and never lost his popularity, taking on nearly 100 movies over a six-decade career that endured beyond a severe stroke in his later years. His death at his family home in Beverly Hills was confirmed by his son Michael, the Oscar-winning actor and filmmaker. "It is with tremendous sadness that my brothers and I announce that Kirk Douglas left us today at the age of 103," Michael Douglas said in a statement posted to Facebook. "To the world he was a legend, an actor from the golden age of movies who lived well into his golden years." Tributes poured in from across Hollywood and around the world on social media, with many declaring "I am Spartacus!" in a nod to Douglas's legendary role as a rebellious Roman slave. Not unlike his title character in "Spartacus," Douglas was known throughout his life for his fiercely rebellious streak. READ: Hollywood great Kirk Douglas celebrates 100th birthday Gabrielle Carteris, head of Hollywood's actors union, on Wednesday praised Douglas as "a powerful voice who helped end the blacklist in our industry," as well as "an "extraordinary actor." Nonetheless Douglas missed out on taking home the trophy on each of his three Oscar nominations, the last for his performance in the 1956 film "Lust for Life," and never won a competitive Academy Award. He was instead granted an honorary lifetime achievement statuette by the Academy in 1996 -- just months after his stroke -- "for 50 years as a creative and moral force in the motion picture community." Douglas, born Issur Danielovitch to Jewish-Russian immigrants in upstate New York in 1916, began as a stage actor before serving in the US Navy during the Second World War. He graduated to movies when "Casablanca" producer Hal Wallis signed him in 1946, and he became a star for his portrayal of a double-crossing and womanizing boxer in 1949's "Champion." His subsequent roles would often mirror his real-world, larger-than-life and intense persona, including Oscar-nominated turns as a ruthless movie producer in "The Bad and the Beautiful" and tortured artist Vincent Van Gogh in "Lust for Life." Douglas told The New York Times in a 1984 interview that he had "always been attracted to characters who are part scoundrel," adding: "I don't find virtue photogenic." In his personal life, Douglas married twice, with the second to Anne Buydens in 1954 enduring over 65 years. Douglas himself would admit to a colorful life as a ladies' man including affairs in his memoirs, but always carefully controlled his image. Douglas is survived by Buydens, 100, and three of his sons. A fourth child, Eric, died of a drug overdose in his 40s, in 2004.