Nearly 1,900 people have now died and more than 72,000 people have been infected by the virus in China, with hundreds of more cases in some 25 countries. BEIJING - The death toll from the new coronavirus outbreak rose again on Tuesday but Chinese and international health officials sought to calm global nerves, citing a study showing most cases are mild and warning against excessive measures to contain the epidemic. Nearly 1,900 people have now died and more than 72,000 people have been infected by the virus in China, with hundreds of more cases in some 25 countries. The epidemic has triggered panic-buying in Singapore and Hong Kong, concerns about cruise-ship travel and the postponement of trade fairs, sports competitions and cultural events in China and abroad. READ: Hospital director at China virus epicentre dies The outbreak is threatening to put a dent in the global economy, with China paralysed by vast quarantine measures and major firms such as iPhone maker Apple and mining giant BHP warning it could damage bottom lines. Several countries have banned travellers from China and major airlines have suspended flights. The World Health Organization, which has previously said travel restrictions were unnecessary, rejected the suggestion that all cruises should be halted after hundreds of passengers were infected on one vessel off Japan. WATCH: Chinese ambassador updates SA on coronavirus "Measures should be taken proportional to the situation. Blanket measures may not help," WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told reporters in Geneva. The WHO has praised China for taking drastic measures to contain the virus. Authorities have placed about 56 million people in hard-hit central Hubei under an unprecedented lockdown. READ: Chinese gyms livestream routines as coronavirus keeps patrons away The official death toll in China hit 1,868 Tuesday after another 98 people died, most in Hubei and its capital Wuhan, where the virus emerged in December. There were nearly 1,900 new cases -- a drop from the previous day. Reported new infections have been falling in the rest of the country for the past two weeks.