A war of words had broken out between the incumbent, Barry Hendricks, and Tennis South Africa board member Ntambi Ravele. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - With Gideon Sam out as Sascoc president, the race to replace him has turned ugly. A war of words had broken out between the incumbent, Barry Hendricks, and Tennis South Africa board member Ntambi Ravele. The result of this, for now, is that Ravele has taken her name off the presidency list. Hendricks has denied blocking Ravele’s nomination to the Sascoc presidency. “It’s a pity that Ms Ravele was of the opinion that the process was being influenced, but we mustn’t move away and forget the fact that Tennis South Africa’s executive are the ultimate people that can make that choice, not me,” Hendricks said. READ: Sascoc qualifying criteria questioned Ravele had the backing of her federation, Tennis South Africa, for the Sascoc vice-presidency during the November election, however that support has since changed. The former Boxing and Netball official puts that down to a particular meeting between Hendricks and TSA President Gavin Crookes. “I approached him to say, because he travels so much, he shouldn’t forget to sign my nomination form before he leaves, and that’s why when he said ‘oh by the way, Barry doesn’t support your nomination’ and I said ‘Barry doesn’t support my nomination? How do you know that? And he said ‘Oh Barry asked me for a meeting’ so in that meeting we were discussing the issues of the elections,” Ravele said. READ: Sunette Viljoen lashes out at Sascoc While Hendricks maintains he is happy for as many officials as possible to throw their names in the ring, Ravele has since opted to withdraw. “I have decided not to put my name in, because I’m not there to fight for position. I was there to serve my country, and if I have to fight to serve, I’m not prepared to do that,” Ravele said. Last month, Sascoc acted to amend its constitution, including the contentious age cut-off for board members. Next month’s presidential election is another significant move in the organisation’s bid to convince funders like the Lotto and the Department of Sport that, after years of strife, things are heading in a new direction. A war of words had broken out between the incumbent, Barry Hendricks, who's been holding the fort temprarily and Tennis South Africa board member Ntambi Ravele. Courtesy #DStv403