The 2020 agricultural calendar kicks off with the Africa Agri Tech expo & conference, where future trends and technology will come under the spotlight. Opening Day highlight will be the launch of the Agriculture Development Agency (AGDA) spearheaded by Roelf Meyer. SPONSORED - The 2020 agriculture calendar kicks off with AFRICA AGRI TECH where future trends and tech in Agriculture come under the spotlight. This 3-day conference line-up, presented by Landbouweekblad, AFGRI, Grobank, and Farmer’s Weekly will explore agriculture, 2020 and beyond. Opening Day highlight will be the launch of the Agriculture Development Agency (AGDA) spearheaded by Roelf Meyer. AGDA is part of the Public Private Growth Initiative (PPGI), established in April 2018 under the leadership of Dr Johan van Zyl, CEO and President of Toyota in Europe. van Zyl was inspired by President Cyril Ramaphosa’s famous Thuma Mina call in January 2018 and based the PPGI on the hugely successful Japanese economic model. The aim is to align strategic planning between government and the private sector, in the interest of improving economic growth and the manner in which government and business work together. Landbouweekblad follows on with a focused speaker line-up, discussing sustainability in agriculture, and the impact of new technologies available. Day one closes off with a panel discussion and delegates then proceed to celebrate not only 100 Years of Landbouweekblad but also 100 episodes of television programme, Landbouweekliks. Day two of the conference is chaired by technology personality, Toby Shapshak, and a highlight of this day will be his co- master of ceremonies, humanoid – Pepper. The speakers include luminaries from the technology world, scientists from leading research institutions ARC and the CSIR, as well as app developers in this sector. Day 3 of the conference will address the economic impact of agriculture on the South African economy but will also explore the impact of the world economy on agri imports and exports. Anchored by AFGRI and Grobank, leading economists will participate in the panel discussion on the world economy. AAT Event Ambassadors Brenda Tlhabane and Andrew Makenete will grace the three-day conference with their wisdoms and participate in interviews and one-on-one discussions. Click HERE for conference registration Click HERE to view our TV Advert Click HERE for trade visitor registration