PRETORIA - Gauteng Premier David Makhura has promised more jobs and a stronger economy. But his State of the Province Address gave little attention to healthcare and education. Also missing was the issue of e-tolls. Makhura delivered this year's address in Ga-Rankuwa in Pretoria. WATCH: Makhura delivers State of the Province Address Political analyst Dirk Kotze said, "he built a lot on what has been established in the past already some of the plans he announced at the time but he didn't specifically refer to them. "I think what he had in mind was to try and present something slightly in contrast to that of the Sona speech by President Cyril Ramaphosa focusing less on more abstract ideas and focus on very specific ideas. "Especially the economic focus areas. Other areas like health, education and security didn't receive as much attention as the economy." Makhura laid out 10 key growth areas for the province. One of the newcomers is the cannabis industry. The growth areas he named were the energy sector, transportation and logistics, ICT, media and digital services, tourism, agriculture, construction and infrastructure, the automotive, aerospace, and defence financial services, cultural and creative industries, and the industrialisation of cannabis. Despite severe housing shortages, Makhura insisted the government is making progress. He says mega-cities are being planned and built.
Makhura said, "we have had unprecedented levels of housing delivery in Gauteng. In the past 25 years, we have seen unprecedented levels of housing delivery in Gauteng. More than 1.2 million public government-subsidised houses have been built in Gauteng alone, benefitting close to 4 million people. READ: 'E-Tolls not off my agenda': Makhura "During this decade, we will ensure that there are no incomplete housing projects or completed houses that are not allocated. However, the deep scars of apartheid remain evident in the spatial settlement patterns of our cities." He explained, "most of the houses built under the new democratic dispensation are located in the periphery, far away from economic nodes and centres of production. The rollout of integrated mega human settlements developments will deliver larger numbers of houses that are co-funded by both public centre funding and state funding for this development to take place." Makhura also appealed to residents to reduce the amount of water they use. He said the province will start using other methods to save water.
Gauteng faces serious risks. He said the water usage in the provinces is too high and unsustainable. Makhura said, "we use 300 litres per person per day, which is way above both the world average, 173 litres per person per day, and the national average, 235 litres per person per day. "We will increase investment in bulk water infrastructure in order to diversify the water mix. We will deploy new and smart technologies to capture groundwater, re-use of wastewater for other purposes, treatment of acid mine drainage and rainwater harvesting," the Premier said. Police and other authorities won't be allowed to harass street vendors from June. Makhura said a new law will be introduced to safeguard the informal economy. READ: Unemployment: Scammers cashing-in on the desperate He said, "In June this year, we are introducing the Township Economic Development Bill in the Provincial Legislature in June this year. This new law will nullify all bylaws that inhibit, frustrate and suppress the operations of SMMEs and informal businesses in our province. "This new law will create new conditions for SMMEs and township businesses to create wealth and employment as they grow and prosper....especially those that need support to observe the law."