The National Prosecuting Authority says former president Jacob Zuma has been asked to submit a medical record. Courtesy #DStv403 DURBAN - Former President Jacob Zuma is set to miss his court appearance on Tuesday. Three sources close to Zuma say the former president is back in Cuba for medical attention. This is Zuma’s second reported visit to Cuba for medical attention. Last year, he spent some time in Cuba and only returning to South Africa days before his annual chess tournament and Christmas parties for children and the elderly in Nkandla. Zuma is facing graft charges emanating from the 1990s multi-billion rand arms deal. He is scheduled to appear at the KwaZulu-Natal High Court sitting in Pietermaritzburg on Tuesday for pre-trial. READ: Zuma says he has nothing to hide from SARS One lawyer says the court proceedings will continue on Tuesday and Zuma is not expected to be physically present in court if he’s unwell because it’s a pre-trial date anyway. “There’s no evidence that will be adduced or presented in court either by the former president or any other witness that belongs to the State," said Mpumelelo Zikalala of Zikalala Attorneys. "So, it’s simply what we call housekeeping issues really to the court. So, even if he’s not there, there’s no train smash. There’s no prejudice which is going to be suffered by the State, no prejudice that’s going to be suffered even by [former] president Jacob Zuma.” One analyst believes Zuma’s ill health’s got to do with old age but says some critics might not believe that he’s actually sick. "Some people obviously would say that he is running away from the Justice system, you know. We know that he was supposed to appear before the Zondo Commission," said University of KwaZulu Natal political analyst Zakhele Ndlovu. "So, now, it’s going to raise all sorts of questions as to whether or not he’s really sick. But as I say, for a man who is approaching 80, you would expect him to be not well all the time.” READ: Zuma trial: How did we get here? Ndlovu says Zuma’s legal woes are taking a toll on his health. “Remember that for the past nine years or so he was the President of the country, he was in power. So, now he is no longer in power and so obviously all these legal challenges are going to keep piling up and he doesn’t have the protection that he had as President. So, naturally, I would imagine that he’s not well at all,” he said. Former President Jacob Zuma’s spokesperson and legal team were not available for comment. The National Prosecuting Authority says Zuma’s been asked to submit a medical record