Princess Beatrice will marry Italian businessman Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi in May. LONDON - Queen Elizabeth II's granddaughter Princess Beatrice is to marry Italian businessman Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi in London later this year, Buckingham Palace announced. The marriage, at St James's Palace on 29 May, is likely to be a more low-key event than the 2018 wedding of her younger sister Eugenie. Beabea - wow! I'm so happy for you my dearest big sissy and dear Edo. It's been a long time coming and you two are meant to be. 📷 by me!! “We are extremely happy to be able to share the news of our recent engagement. We are both so excited to be embarking on this life adventure together and can’t wait to actually be married. We share so many similar interests and values and we know that this will stand us in great stead for the years ahead, full of love and happiness” A post shared by  Princess Eugenie (@princesseugenie) on Sep 26, 2019 at 3:10am PDT She paraded through the streets of Windsor after marrying British wine merchant Jack Brooksbank. Beatrice and Eugenie are daughters of the queen's second son Prince Andrew, who has been embroiled in a scandal over his friendship with convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. He stepped back from royal duties in November over his links to the disgraced financier, who was found dead in prison as he faced charges of sexually exploiting underage girls. READ: British princess Beatrice engaged to marry A statement said Beatrice's wedding, in the Chapel Royal at St James's, "will be followed by a private reception, given by The Queen, in the gardens of Buckingham Palace". The Royal Chapel has hosted many weddings in the royal family, including that of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert on February 10, 1840. It is also popular for royal baptisms, including that of Prince George -- the eldest son of Prince William and his wife Kate. Beatrice and her sister's mother is Sarah Ferguson. She and Andrew divorced in 1996. Mozzi is a wealthy real estate tycoon, ex-member of the international jet-set and a cricket fan. He has one son from a previous relationship. Beatrice and Eugenie are respectively ninth and 10th in line to the British throne. She's so excited.... Today the family announced Beatrice will marry Edo on 29th May 2020. Very proud of this moment. Xx A post shared by  Princess Eugenie (@princesseugenie) on Feb 7, 2020 at 6:51am PST