Parents and teachers gather near the scene of a stampede at the Kakamega Primary School in Kakamega, Kenya. NAIROBI - At least 14 children died and dozens of others were injured in a stampede as they left their primary school in Kenya on Monday, local police said, with investigators still trying to ascertain the cause of the tragedy. The police have launched an inquiry into what caused the crowd of students to panic, leading to the crush at around 5pm at the school in the western town of Kakamega. In the aftermath of the stampede, the police cordoned off the school and took statements from the teaching staff. Images broadcast by local media showed parents gathered in front of the emergency ward of a hospital in the town, waiting for news of their children. "We lost 14 of them," Education Minister George Magoha told Citizen TV. "One life (lost) is a life too many." One of the children's mothers blamed the teachers. "Those who survived said they were running because there were teachers who were beating them, and that is why they were escaping and fell on each other," the mother said in an interview with local media. READ: 20 killed in Tanzanian church stampede: official She said the children were mostly in grade five, aged between 10 and 12. The Daily Nation said that some of the children fell from the third floor as they ran. "As kids were going home from school there was a stampede as they were going down the stairs," said Peter Abwao, a spokesman for Red Cross Kenya. "It's a three-storey building, it's a classroom block." The Kakamega Primary School did not immediately comment on the incident. "We are devastated by the tragedy that has hit Kakamega Primary School this evening," said Kenya's Vice President William Ruto in a post on Twitter. "Our prayers, love and thoughts to the families and relatives of the victims of the misfortune." Kenya Red Cross said on Twitter that it was setting up psychological support services, as well as a "tracing desk" to help relatives locate potentially affected students. - Additional reporting Reuters