A R6.5 billion investment by mining giant Richards’ Bay Minerals remains suspended. KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Sihle Zikalala’s briefed KwaMbonambi community members during an imbizo on Sunday. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - A R6.5-billion investment by mining giant Richards’ Bay Minerals remains suspended. KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Sihle Zikalala’s briefed KwaMbonambi community members during an imbizo on Sunday. The Rio Tinto subsidiary halted the multi-billion rand Zulti South expansion project following a shooting incident last year. An emotionally charged community gathering called by provincial authorities to plead with locals to ensure safety and stability in the area – and avert the crisis of an international mining giant pulling out of the area. Authorities wanted to give a progress report on their interventions in solving the KwaMbuyazi traditional leadership dispute. READ: Africa holds 'silence the guns' summit as new conflicts grow The family’s been rocked by a lengthy battle over who should take over following the demise of the late iNkosi but, some used the gathering to vent out what they call lack of employment opportunities in the area. The mining giant’s put on hold a R6.5 billion expansion investment project because of instability in the area and this is giving authorities a major headache. “They are worried like we are equally worried that the project of R6.5-billion, that investment has been suspended. And we will work together to ensure that the situation is normalised so that the company will engage also on ensuring that they re-activate that investment and continue with investment in the area,” said KZN Premier Sihle Zikalala. RBM’s threat to pull out of KwaZulu-Natal and South Africa altogether would be catastrophic - as the mine employs more than 5000 people and pays R1.3-billion in taxes annually. RBM didn’t send an official delegation to the gathering. Zikalala’s promised to monitor the situation and beef up security to ensure stability for mine operations.