NASA astronaut Christina Koch reacts shortly after landing in a remote area outside the town of Dzhezkazgan in Kazakhstan. ALMATY, Kazakhstan - NASA's Christina Koch returned to Earth safely on Thursday after shattering the spaceflight record for female astronauts with a stay of almost 11 months aboard the International Space Station. Koch touched down on the Kazakh steppe after 328 days in space, along with Luca Parmitano of the European Space Agency and Alexander Skvortsov of the Russian space agency. Koch was shown seated and smiling broadly after being extracted from the Soyuz descent module in the Roscosmos space agency's video footage from the landing site. WATCH: In first, spacewalk conducted by two women "I am so overwhelmed and happy right now," said Koch, who blasted off on March 14 last year. US President Donald Trump congratulated Koch on Twitter. "Welcome back to Earth, @Astro_Christina, and congratulations on breaking the female record for the longest stay in space! You're inspiring young women and making the USA proud!" he tweeted. Koch, a 41-year-old Michigan-born engineer, on 28 December beat the previous record for a single spaceflight by a woman of 289 days, set by NASA veteran Peggy Whitson in 2016-17. Koch called three-time flyer Whitson, now 60, "a heroine of mine" and a "mentor" in the space programme after she surpassed the record. She spoke of her desire to "inspire the next generation of explorers." Koch also made history as one half of the first-ever all-woman spacewalk along with NASA counterpart Jessica Meir -- her classmate from NASA training -- in October. READ: Astronaut Scott Kelly battles aches on return to Earth Ahead of the three-and-a-half hour journey back to Earth, Koch told NBC News on Tuesday that she would "miss microgravity". "It's really fun to be in a place where you can just bounce around between the ceiling and the floor whenever you want," she said, smiling as she twisted her body around the ISS. Scott Kelly holds the record for a NASA astronaut, posting 340 days at the ISS before he returned home in 2016.