File: Former Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir, who is detained in Sudan after being convicted of corruption, denies the allegations. KHARTOUM - Rights groups pushed for the swift handover of Sudan's ousted strongman Omar al-Bashir to the International Criminal Court after the country's new authorities pledged to bring him to justice for alleged war crimes in Darfur. Top Sudanese officials said that the new rulers had agreed with rebel groups to send Bashir and three former aides to The Hague-based court for their role in the conflict in the western Darfur region. "The Sudanese authorities should translate these words into action" and immediately transfer all four, said Amnesty International acting secretary-general Julie Verhaar. READ: Sudan to hand Bashir to ICC for Darfur crimes "Omar al-Bashir is wanted by the ICC over the murder, extermination, forcible transfer, torture and rape of hundreds of thousands of people during the conflict in Darfur. "A decision to hand him over to the court would be a welcome step towards justice for victims and their families." The conflict in Darfur, a region the size of France, erupted in 2003 when ethnic minority rebels took up arms against Bashir's then Arab-dominated government, accusing it of economic and political marginalisation. READ: Sudan's al-Bashir convicted on charges of corruption The ICC has charged Bashir with genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity for his role in the conflict. Bashir, who is detained in Sudan after being convicted of corruption, denies the allegations. He evaded arrest for more than a decade, travelling overseas in open defiance of the ICC. The court has also indicted three of his former aides, Ahmed Haroon, Abdulrahim Mohamed Hussain and Ali Kushied. READ: What next for Sudan after Bashir's fall? Rights groups say widespread abuses have taken place in Darfur, where the United Nations says about 300,000 people have been killed and millions displaced since the conflict began. "Sudanese security forces' widespread attacks on civilians under Bashir's campaign of terror, including pervasive sexual violence as a weapon of war, have had devastating impacts on the lives and livelihoods of their victims," US-based NGO Physicians for Human Rights said in a statement. "It is beyond time that his victims and their families receive justice." Sudanese government spokesman Faisal Mohamed Salih told reporters on Wednesday that "details of how Bashir and others will be presented in front of the ICC will be discussed with the ICC and armed groups".