Military officers salute the coffin of late former Kenya President Daniel Arap Moi, draped in the Kenya national flag, during a funeral service. NAIROBI - Kenya's deputy president pledged to unite the country in honour of Daniel Arap Moi, its longest-ruling president, who was buried at his sprawling estate in the Rift Valley on Wednesday. Moi, who died last week at 95, won praise for keeping Kenya mostly stable during his 24-year rule but criticism for a legacy of corruption that still haunts the East African nation to date. Deputy President William Ruto told the mourners that Moi had worked to ensure that the vast Rift Valley region was home to all of Kenya's 45 ethnic communities, which have periodically been riven by bitter divisions over land and politics. READ: Former Kenyan president Daniel Arap Moi dead at 95 "Rift Valley will continue to be the valley of peace, and from the valley, we will continue to build so that it is the fountain of politics of uniting Kenya and all communities in our country," said Ruto, who also hails from the region. "Moi taught us that hate is big burden to carry, and told us tribalism is stupidity; let us not give stupidity a chance. That is why we are going to be steadfast and firm in ensuring that our great country shall continue to be knit together." The Rift Valley, rich with fertile land used to produce tea and other commodities, has been the epicentre of election violence. READ: Kenya to hold state funeral for Moi Tribal clashes broke out there during the 1992 and 1997 elections, as Moi's Kalenjin tribe sought to kick out opposition supporters who were perceived as outsiders because they had settled there after independence from Britain in 1963. Violence flared again during the 2007 presidential election campaign and Ruto himself was accused of being behind it. He was charged at the International Criminal Court at The Hague before the court dropped the charges later. Officers from the Kenyan navy fired a 19-gun salute in tribute to Moi, before his body was lowered into a grave next to his wife who died in 2004.