Let's go to eNCA's Masego Rahlaga who's at the Mandela home in Soweto. Zindzi Mandela has passed away aged 59. She was the daughter of Nelson Mandela and Winnie-Madikizela Mandela. #eNCA Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Tributes and condolences have begun to pour in following the news that Zindzi Mandela has died on Monday. The details surrounding Mandela's death are still unknown. The Minister of International and Cooperation, Dr Naledi Pandor said in a statement that Mandela was a struggle heroine in her own right. "May her soul rest in peace," the statement read. READ: Zindzi Mandela dies aged 59 The Black Business Council (BBC) released a statement containing their condolences. “She fought since the early days of her life as she campaigned for Nelson Mandela to be released. She grew up in the forefront of the anti-apartheid struggle as her mother fought both the state and economic hardship as a single mother while her father was incarcerated,” said Sandile Zungu, President of the Black Business Council. "Our condolences to the family, her sisters, children, and grandchildren. “She will best be remembered for her defiance, which she retained throughout her life. May her soul rest in eternal power,” concluded Zungu. President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced a number of measures to combat the spread of COVID-19.They include among others the banning of alcohol sale and a curfew between 4 am and 9 pm For more reaction on President's address to the nation last night we're joined by Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali. #eNCA COURTESY #DStv403   Cosatu general-secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali said, "it's sad that we are losing so many people during this difficult time." Ntshalintshali said Cosatu delegates had been hosted by Mandela during a trip to Denmark and will always remember her hospitality. ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe said the party is still confirming the details surrounding Mandela's death and would communicate with the public as soon as possible. Mabe conveyed the party's condolences, saying "this is quite a painful one, the party was not expecting this sad news." Zindzi Mandela, the daughter of Nelson Mandela and Winnie Madikizela-Mandela has died. She was 59-years-old. For some reaction to this, we speak to the governing party's spokesperson, Pule Mabe. #eNCA Courtesy #DStv403