Take the time to educate yourself on your bank’s rewards programme or value-added services, and reap the benefits of your knowledge. SPONSORED - While you may generally know what cheque account you have, you might have not paid attention to what other benefits come with it. Perhaps now is the time to take a closer look as you could be missing out on benefits that could make a significant difference in your life. As we grapple with the new world of lockdowns, quarantines, social distancing and so forth, our lives are gradually changed, and so are our needs. It is important that we reflect on the kind of resources at our disposal to ensure that they continue to play the role that supports us on the journey forward. Amongst anyone’s tool kit should be the financial resources as they play the critical role in building our dreams. For instance, having a bank account is a prerequisite for any sustainable financial journey. But most people do not pay much attention to what bank account they have and whether or not it is suited for their realities. Absa developed this concept of value bundles some time ago. The concept came out of the understanding that customers need banking and financial partners who have vested interest in their wellbeing. When Absa designed the cheque value bundle products, a significant amount of time was spent on research. The intent was to understand customers, their needs and wants in great depth. This is because we wanted to develop solutions that would form part of our customer’s lives and not limited to banking needs. While we know that customers have transactional needs, which involve receiving income safely and conveniently. We also know that money is the means to an end. So, when we created the value bundles, we also catered for much more than an account. We catered for most of the basic banking requirements in the form of bundled transactions which are deeply discounted. Included in that basket are digital transactions offered at no extra cost to allow customers affordable banking remotely. Our digital channels continue to be free. Our App has been accessible to millions even to those who at times cannot afford data to maintain connectivity. But our promise to customers is not limited to just mainstream banking, we have gone beyond to think of those moments when they will require support for the more serious realities that could impact their lives – such as loss of employment, sudden disability and even what would happen in the event of that one passes on. As the economy takes a knock from the COVID 19 pandemic, we expect most of the things we thought you could need to become that more evident. So regardless whether you have a Gold or Premium Banking value bundle, you keep your Retrenchment cover, Disability cover, Funeral cover and a lot more for a low fixed monthly fee. So, when we say we care, we mean it in practical terms.