President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to provide an update on the government's strategies to manage the coronavirus pandemic. PRETORIA - President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the nation on public schools closing for a month and the management of the resources that government has dedicated towards the fight against COVID-19. Ramaphosa announced that all public schools will close for up to a month, due to the rise in COVID-19 infections. He made the announcement after consultations with various stakeholders. The president also said the school year will be extended beyond December. Here is a summary of Ramaphosa's announcements; On the closure of schools • All public schools should take a break for the next four weeks. • Schools will be closed from 27 July and will re-open on 24 August. • Grade 12 learners and teachers will only take a one-week break, returning to school on 3 August. • Grade 7 learners will take a two-week break, returning to school on 10 August. • Specific arrangements will be made for different categories of special schools. • The current academic year will be extended beyond the end of 2020. • The National School Nutrition Programme will continue to operate so that all learners or their parents can collect food directly from schools. READ: SAHRC, DA condemn decision to close public schools Ramaphosa also said that all those found guilty of embezzling COVID-19 funds will be prosecuted. On corruption related to COVID-19 funds • An investigations centre has been set up to probe all alleged corruption related to COVID-19 funds. • Ramaphosa says different arms of the state will work together on the investigations. • The Auditor-General has also adopted special measures to safeguard funds committed to the fight against COVID-19. • Special audits have been undertaken to detect and prevent misuse of these funds and to identify risks in the system. • Investigations into the distribution of food parcels, social relief grants, the procurement of personal protective equipment and other medical supplies, and the UIF special COVID-19 scheme have already begun. • At least 36 cases are currently at various stages of investigation and prosecution. • Ramaphosa also signed a special proclamation empowering the Special Investigating Unit to probe any contract or tender implicated in COVID-19 corruption. • To ensure that action is taken speedily, Ramaphosa will be getting interim reports on investigations every six weeks.  Decisions about the reopening of schools must strike a difficult balance between the risk of learners contracting COVID-19 & the academic and social costs of prolonged closures. pic.twitter.com/51ZPqIOY77  As South Africa approaches its peak of COVID-19 infections, we must take the cautious approach to prevent schools from becoming sites of transmission. pic.twitter.com/xxe1HtCfho  Despite the many difficulties associated with school closures, our approach to reopening must be a cautious one, especially as areas of the country approach a peak in COVID-19 infections. pic.twitter.com/vCCzGCCJZ5  As South Africa approaches its peak of COVID-19 infections, we must take the cautious approach to prevent schools from becoming sites of transmission. pic.twitter.com/vIsfbcym4W  The coronavirus crisis has caused immense hardship for communities across our country. We have put significant social relief & economic support measures in place to ease the pressure on businesses, workers & the most vulnerable members of society. pic.twitter.com/pWIKu2Ekxa  The coronavirus crisis has caused immense hardship for communities across our country. We have put significant social relief & economic support measures in place to ease the pressure on businesses, workers & the most vulnerable members of society. pic.twitter.com/PfTzz9IXq8  In this challenging time, any form of corruption represents a critical setback in our fight against the coronavirus. Any and all forms of mismanagement and misuse of resources must be rooted out. pic.twitter.com/pRSrzRw24V  We are taking measures to ensure that those who misuse vital funds or exploit this disaster for personal gain face swift and harsh consequences. pic.twitter.com/klMxr7ez2F  We are taking measures to ensure that those who misuse vital funds or exploit this disaster for personal gain face swift and harsh consequences. pic.twitter.com/3m8xlkCSdl  To sustain our fight against the coronavirus, we must ensure that all of our resources and capacity are used appropriately and effectively. pic.twitter.com/HjBJLTdlqv  Those who weaken our response to this crisis through corrupt or illegal activity must face swift and harsh consequences. pic.twitter.com/cyS56BopYP We are taking measures to ensure that those who misuse vital funds or exploit this disaster for personal gain face swift and harsh consequences. pic.twitter.com/WzpipUICrZ