Once again, some government officials are in trouble for allegedly violating lockdown regulations. Ministers were part of a large crowd of mourners, gathered outside the home of struggle stalwart Andrew Mlangeni, on Tuesday. It's raised questions about the lockdown regulations and to whom they should apply. Courtesy #DStv403   JOHANNESBURG - Police are investigating the violation of lockdown regulations by mourners at the home of late struggle icon Andrew Mlangeni. WATCH: Funeral service of Andrew Mlangeni The large gathering of mourners outside the Mlangeni family residence in Soweto raised questions on lockdown regulations and to whom they should apply. The maximum number of funeral attendants currently allowed at a funeral in South Africa is 50. SAPS spokesperson Vish Naidoo said, "the regulations in terms of the Disaster Management Act 57 of 2002, makes provision for the dispersing of crowds who gather illegally and it also makes provision to hold accountable, a person or persons who convenes or organises illegal gatherings." Naidoo said a case of contravention of the Disaster Management Act has been opened and will be investigated by the police. Police are investigating the violation of lockdown regulations by mourners at the home of late struggle icon Andrew Mlangeni. Police say they've received calls to arrest mourners who contravened lockdown regulations. Courtesy #DStv403 pic.twitter.com/GgIbyzKcf9 Led by the TG, Cde Paul Mashatile today, we join the Mlangeni family as they welcome home the body of Isithwalandwe/Seaparankwe Ntate Andrew Mlangeni. pic.twitter.com/efswdOc9FY ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe said the gathering was spontaneous and involved a platoon of MKMVA and marshalls from the ANC attempting to bring the body of Mlangeni into the family home. He urged that the moment, honouring the life of the last Rivonia trialist, not be overshadowed by the gathering saying, "what a freedom fighter stood for must not be outdone by a moment of members of the community coming out." As soon as the mourners were informed of the violation, a limited number of attendees brought the body into the family home, Mabe said. COVID-19: Where death comes wrapped in plastic "Just last year we did not have COVID-19, we ought to understand this. It will take its own time for our people to learn to understand and appreciate that COVID-19 calls for a greater change of behaviour from the rest of our citizens," Mabe said. The party spokesperson denied that further measures to disperse the crowds could have been taken. "It is not for the ANC, as an organisation, to tell the people of South Africa how they must celebrate the heroic deeds of their leaders," he said. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.