File: The World Health Organization (WHO) said that there was currently “no evidence” that people who have recovered from COVID-19 and have antibodies are protected from a second coronavirus infection. DURBAN - A Durban woman has been reinfected with COVID-19. She tested positive in March. READ: SA COVID-19 outbreak should be wake-up call for Africa: WHO After two weeks of isolation, her results came back negative. In July, after experiencing flu-like symptoms, she tested positive again. The South African Medical Research Council's Glenda Gray said the possibility of reinfection can't be ruled out. READ: SA ranked 5th globally for COVID-19 infections "We do believe that reinfection is possible and we need to see how long after your initial infection you may get reinfected," said Gray. Gray said there are still many unanswered questions and many factors must be taken into consideration. A Durban woman has been reinfected with COVID-19. She tested positive in March. After two weeks of isolation, her results came back negative. In July, after experiencing flu-like symptoms, she tested positive again. Courtesy #DStv403 pic.twitter.com/pHJBd5bBPP Scientists are still studying the possibility of reinfection and immunity in COVID-19. In a study released on Monday -- the first of its kind -- a team led by researchers from King's College London said patients who recover from coronavirus infections might lose immunity to reinfection within months. READ: Debate swirls on use of virus 'immunity passports' WHO emergencies director Michael Ryan said it was not yet known whether recovered COVID-19 patients could be infected again, but "with other coronaviruses, that is the case". WHO COVID-19 technical lead Maria Van Kerkhove said more studies were needed. While those infected did mount some level of an immune response through antibodies, "what we don't know is how strong that protection is, and for how long that protection will last", she said. READ: 'Breakthrough' treatment slashes virus death risk: study The WHO said that there was currently “no evidence” that people who have recovered from COVID-19 and have antibodies are protected from a second coronavirus infection. “There is currently no evidence that people who have recovered from COVID-19 and have antibodies are protected from a second infection,” it said. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.