One of the few mosques in the Western Cape that have re-opened its doors for congregational prayers is using technology to keep its faithful safe. The Sulaimani Mosque in Goodwood, Cape Town has an online register and communicates to people via WhatsApp. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - One of the few mosques in the Western Cape that have re-opened its doors for congregational prayers, is using technology to keep its faithful safe. The Sulaimani Mosque in Goodwood, Cape Town has an online register and communicates to people via WhatsApp. The Muslim Judicial Council has advised mosques in hotspot areas to delay reopening and others to adhere to government’s COVID-19 safety regulations. For more than three months this mosque, like other places of worship, stood empty but when lockdown rules were relaxed down to level three, some opened their doors again. Level 3 lockdown: Some churches reopen “The minute the government said it was allowed we did not start immediately, we took some time to prepare ourselves. We were able to demarcate 50 prayer places so everybody has to bring their own prayer mats in. We were able to get the stickers and the sanitizers and the temperature machine and we have a WhatsApp platform so we could easily communicate things to the congregation," said Moulana Sarfaraz Hamza of the Sulaimani Mosque. He says because of the small congregation he’s confident things will go according to plan. He says the online registration platform means things are running smoothly and people are happy to return. “We told people over 60 you don’t need to attend, we discouraged them. Those who had not yet reached puberty told them not to come. Between them, if there are two, three people in a family, we asked them to rotate so that everybody would get a chance and fair representation in the 50 people," he added. READ: COVID-19 pandemic easing in Western Cape Those with comorbidities are not allowed to come to the mosque. He’s appealing to Muslims to adhere to COVID-19 regulations and not to put their own or others’ lives in danger. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.