The Huawei P40 Lite, launched in SA on 18 May 2020. SPONSORED - Here’s a familiar scenario for all the gamers. You have just finished downloading that brand new mobile game everyone is talking about, you’ve plugged in your earphones, and you’ve started getting immersed in this virtual world. Suddenly you get a notification from a friend. FOMO makes you want to open it, but you don’t want to quit your game! And then another notification – your battery is low and you don’t have your charger with you. These are just two of the most common worries for mobile gamers. But for gamers with the new HUAWEI P40 lite, these worries are a distant memory. This is thanks to powerful hardware, a variety of gamer-focused features and a large battery. Let’s look at why the HUAWEI P40 lite is every gamer’s ideal companion. A smooth gaming experience supported by robust performance and long-lasting battery For flawless lag-free gameplay, your smartphone is going to need power – lots of it. The HUAWEI P40 lite comes with the Kirin 810 chipset at its heart, which promises excellent performance with much better efficiency. In addition to this, you also get Kirin Gaming+ with further upgrades for your gaming experience, with GPU optimisation and HD Game effect enhancement. A series of GPU optimisation technologies are also implemented to prevent overload and improve image quality, clarity and contrast for a more immersive experience. The smartphone also uses AI scheduling technology to allocate CPU resources, which means when you are playing, the phone is going to ensure that it’s giving you its best. Gaming graphics are further improved with the help of the latest in GPU Turbo technology, which enables the software to work better with hardware and enhances processing efficiency. This basically means better performance while consuming less power. To top it all off, 8GB of RAM ensures faster operation and you get 128GB of storage space, so you can download as many games as you like. All this talk about power does raise the question about battery life, but that’s something the HUAWEI P40 lite has an abundance of. In fact, this device packs a massive flagship battery of a whopping 4200 mAh. You’ll be able to enjoy a lot of long gaming sessions thanks to that! When you do have to recharge this powerhouse battery, 40W HUAWEI SuperCharge can charge your device up to 70% in just 30 minutes, meaning you will be back to the game in no time. Uninterrupted gaming A lot of us gamers have no choice but to ignore any incoming text messages while gaming, no matter how hard it may be. However, with the HUAWEI P40 lite’s Game Dock feature, you don’t have to quit your game just to reply to a text message. Now you can add a resizable chat box into your game interface and adjust its position as well, which means you can play and text at the same time. Game Dock also comes with additional features such as a Do Not Disturb mode, screenshot, screen recording and acceleration, all designed to improve your gaming experience. Finally, the 6.4-inch FHD+ HUAWEI Punch FullView display will provide you with that truly immersive gaming experience. By replacing the notch with a small punch hole in the corner, you have a lot more screen for your game, which means you are not going to miss a single frame of action. All your favourite games The HUAWEI P40 lite is the second Huawei device to launch in SA that comes with Huawei’s HMS ecosystem. A significant element of this ecosystem is the HUAWEI AppGallery, Huawei’s app store. Although it was only launched to a wider target audience in 2018, HUAWEI AppGallery has already secured its position as one of the Top 3 app marketplaces globally. The HUAWEI AppGallery has a range of global and local apps, from shopping to finance to food; and, of course, all the games your heart desires. For those few apps that HUAWEI AppGallery doesn’t have yet, you can simply Phone Clone these apps from your old device. Want to get your game on? The HUAWEI P40 lite is the ideal companion for all mobile gamers, be it the casual gamer, the action-packed gamer or the adrenaline-fuelled racing gamer. All you have to do is open your favorite game and hit play. You can now purchase the HUAWEI P40 lite for the RRP of R6,499 from https://huaweistore.co.za/p40-lite.html, Takealot, and all mobile operators. The smartphone is available in the following colours: Sakura Pink, Crush Green*, and Midnight Black. *Crush Green variant is only available on Takealot and www.huaweistore.co.za.