This picture shows the Venus planet above vines near Chinon, center France, on July 20, 2020. WASHINGTON - Scientists have identified 37 volcanic structures on Venus that appear to be recently active - and probably still are today - painting the picture of a geologically dynamic planet and not a dormant world as long thought. READ: Surviving core of ill-fated planet spotted near distant star The research focused on ring-like structures called coronae, caused by an upwelling of hot rock from
deep within the planet's interior, and provided compelling evidence of widespread recent tectonic and magma activity on Venus's surface, researchers said on Monday. Many scientists long had thought Venus, lacking the plate tectonics that gradually reshape Earth's
surface, was essentially dormant geologically for the past half billion years. "Our work shows that some of that interior heat is still able to reach the surface even today. Venus is
clearly not so geologically dead or dormant as previously thought," said Earth and planetary scientist
Anna Gülcher of the Institute of Geophysics in Zurich, lead author of the research published in the
journal Nature Geoscience. READ: Astronomers discover most Earth-like planet yet The researchers determined the type of geological features that could exist only in a recently active
corona - a telltale trench surrounding the structure. Then they scoured radar images of Venus from NASA's Magellan spacecraft in the 1990s to find coronae that fit the bill. Of 133 coronae examined, 37 appear to have been active in the past 2 million to 3 million years, a blink of the eye in geological time. "In my opinion, many of these structures are indeed active today," said University of Maryland
geophysicist and study co-author Laurent Montesi. Coronae are essentially fields of lava flows and major faults spanning a large circular area. Many of
the 37 reside within in a gigantic ring in the planet's Southern Hemisphere, including a colossal
corona called Artemis 2,100 km in diameter. Venus, Earth's closest and just slightly smaller planetary neighbour is covered by clouds of sulfuric
acid and has surface temperatures hot enough to melt lead.