South African veteran actress Mary Twala was confirmed to have died on Saturday, 4 July by her son. JOHANNESBURG - A veteran of South African television and film, Mary Twala died on Saturday morning in Netcare Park Lane Hospital according to her son. Twala was 80 years old. On Saturday, Twala's son entertainer Somizi Mhlongo confirmed the news of her passing on social media saying: "Today's my late father's birthday.....and my mom decided to respond to his call to join him in heaven.....THE TREE HAS FALLEN... I'm shattered to the core.....but I'd be very selfish if I dont release her....my mom lived to the fullest....achieved beyond her dreams....its hurts like hell.....I wont lie.....a day without her calling to either say I love u or give me money.......thank u south africa for loving the phenomenal super star that is my mother.......she left us peacefully around 11am at parklane pvt hospital as I was on my way to drop off her gown and a few minutes earlier the dr called to say come shes up and jolly now.....I arrived a few mon late......LALA MA......" In 2011, Twala was nominated for an Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role. She received the National Order Award from president Cyril Ramaphosa in 2019. The late actress is known for appearing in several local productions including Generations, Sarafina, Yizo-Yizo, Muvhango, and many more. Today's my late father's birthday.....and my mom decided to respond to his call to join him in heaven.....THE TREE HAS FALLEN... I'm shattered to the core.....but I'd be very selfish if I dont release her....my mom lived to the fullest....achieved beyond her dreams....its hurts like hell.....I wont lie.....a day without her calling to either say I love u or give me money.......thank u south africa for loving the phenomenal super star that is my mother.......she left us peacefully around 11am at parklane pvt hospital as I was on my way to drop off her gown and a few minutes earlier the dr called to say come shes up and jolly now.....I arrived a few mon late......LALA MA...... A post shared by  Somizi (@somizi) on Jul 4, 2020 at 5:44am PDT