Expected to work but not paid. They took to the streets yesterday near the education department offices in the Johannesburg CBD, demanding an end to the situation. eNCA's Nqobile Madlala has the story. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - A group of 180 teachers from Isikhumbuzo Secondary School, Solwazi Primary School and Isiboniso Primary School has not seen a salary since March. The independent schools, which rely on subsidies from the education department, have not been able to pay the teachers, apparently because the department has not paid subsidies. The teachers say to make matters worse, their voices are being silenced by the schools. READ: Social protection responses to the COVID-19 lockdown in SA They took to the streets on Thursday near the education department offices in the Johannesburg CBD, demanding an end to the situation. Their woes seem far from over as education department and the lawyers representing the schools are locked in a court battle.
Zaheer Mohamed, a lawyer for the school said,  “you must understand that our client's action is limited, to what is allowed in terms of the law. READ: Labour Minister urges companies to pay full salaries "In terms of the judgment was supposed to be made within five days. Payment was not made. "We then drafted to hold the Department of Education as well as the MEC of the education contempt of such order on the bases that no live to apply had been filed as yet.” The education department denies any blame, saying it is doing its due diligence by investigating the matter. COVID-19 fund: UIF shocked at big companies not paying workers The department lost in court on 30 June and is now filing an appeal. The spokesperson for the Department of Basic Education, Steve Mabona said, "as a Department we are accountable for the funds, in the event that the money is not utilised appropriately for education purposes because we subsidiss them to assist the education system” The education department says in the meantime it will reach out to schools to assist where it can which is small comfort for the teachers who have to wait for the outcome of the battle in court.