German Chancellor Angela Merkel looks on next to French President Emmanuel Macron during an EU summit in Brussels as the leaders of the European Union hold a summit over a post-virus economic rescue plan. BRUSSELS - EU leaders approved a landmark stimulus package to fight the withering aftershocks of the coronavirus outbreak that has sunk Europe into its deepest recession in history. The 750-billion-euro deal was sealed after four days and nights of intense negotiation that saw threats of walkouts and fierce intransigence by the Netherlands. "Deal!" tweeted EU Council Chief Charles Michel, whose job was to guide the tortuous talks over more than 90 hours. READ: Euro hovers near 4-month peak as market looks to EU summit The package, seen by AFP, was made possible by the crucial backing of Germany and France and includes the biggest ever joint borrowing by the 27 members of the bloc, something that had been resisted by Berlin for generations. The package will send tens of billions of euros to countries hardest hit by the virus, most notably heavily indebted Spain and Italy that had lobbied hard for a major gesture from their EU partners. Their call for solidarity was met with the fierce opposition of the "Frugals", a group of small, northern nations led by Netherlands, who believed strongly that the stimulus package was unnecessary. READ: Coronavirus plunges world economy into brutal recession To meet their concerns, payouts from the package will come with important strings attached -- a hard pill to swallow for Rome and Madrid who deeply resisted anything resembling the harsh bailouts imposed on Greece, Portugal or Ireland during the debt crisis. The European Commission, the EU's executive arm, will be in charge of distributing the funds, with the 27 member states able to turn down a spending plan if a weighted majority of them decide to intervene. The rescue package was agreed along with the EU's long-term budget, bringing the agreed spending to 1.8 trillion euros through 2027.