Health Minister Zweli Mkhize will not release advisories from the Ministerial Advisory Committee on COVID-19. This is despite a call by some advisors to release the documents to create greater understanding of the virus and government's response. JOHANNESBURG- A member of the COVID-19 Ministerial Advisory Committee says it did not recommend the first ban on alcohol sales. Professor Francois Venter says the alcohol sale ban was only discussed under level 3 lockdown. He is among the committee members calling on government to release the committee's advisories. WATCH: Mkhize says alcohol ban evidence-based Venter says that the lack of transparency is causing confusion. "On one hand you have a situation where the government is saying you must not go party, the President was saying he is worried about young people going to party, but it is okay to go to church, it is okay to get into a crowded taxi. It's not okay to go see your family for Sunday breakfast. Those things don't make sense," Venter said. READ: SA lockdown: Growing calls for lifting of alcohol ban He further says that he does not know where some decisions come from. "The previous alcohol ban and all the range aspects of the lockdowns I'm not sure where those decisions came from. The government keeps saying scientists are making these decisions, it is part of our frustrations, actually," he said. Venter says that some of these regulations have broken the social compact. However, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize is refusing to make the documents public. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.