PSL chairman Irvin Khoza to address media on return to action of football specifically the premier league and GladAfrica Championship. Both leagues are set to resume in August and the location of the games will also be revealed by Khoza. JOHANNESBURG - The Premier Soccer League remains optimistic about being able to finish the current season. The organisation held a media briefing to update stakeholders on attempts to restart the season. Local football has been suspended since March due to the coronavirus pandemic and stakeholders are busy with discussions to resume play. “We submitted the date which we have not made public, we have not announced the date in public if there’s a date in public it’s not our date because as the PSL we have never officially announced the date so I’m saying what we have done we have submitted the date to SAFA because what we do usually we prepare the fixture and submit it to SAFA every year and for them to supply the referees so now they have taken that correspondence to the compliance officers meeting for discussion so we just have to wait,” said PSL chairperson Dr Irvin Khoza. READ: Absa, PSL announce end to Absa Premiership sponsorship After the Sports Ministry allowed the PSL to resume training and play under strict safety protocol, football bosses suggested that they will finish the season in one province that does not have high coronavirus cases. Gauteng is now the epicentre of the pandemic so playing there would raise eyebrows but plans are being made to adhere to safety regulations. “When we submitted our applications to government, it was the Board of Governors resolution that we are going play all the games in Gauteng and North West Province, we did receive a very good pitch from KZN which was considered by the task team but unfortunately because of the application that was submitted we chose Gauteng and Northwest but as we speak now the PSL has resorted to sticking to Gauteng only because of the advantages that it gives,” Khoza said. Despite the current challenges, the PSL still plans to finish the season by the end of August. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.