We get reaction to the president's education announcement from DA interim leader, John Steenhuisen. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - The Human Rights Commission and the Democratic Alliance are slamming government's decision to close public schools. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that all public schools will close for up to a month, due to the rise in COVID-19 infections. Ramaphosa made the announcement after consultations with various stakeholders. The SAHRC says the decision is regrettable and unjustifiable. READ: Unions intensify call for school closure While, DA leader John Steenhuisen says Ramaphosa has bent the knee to teachers' unions, particularly the South African Democratic Teachers Union. "This decision is not supported by the best available evidence, it is not supported by education experts, and it is not supported by the virus data," Steenhuisen said. "The scientific evidence is that schools do not expose learners and staff to higher levels of risk than any other places." COVIDThe commission says there are grave consequences for pupils if they are not at school. The SAHRC says pupils will now face an increased risk of child abuse and mental health breakdowns. WATCH: Karim explains why schools should remain open It also says there will be an increase in inequality since poorer schools will not be able to continue learning. The DA is accusing Ramaphosa of being a spectator president. The party says the president is merely taking instructions from whichever powerful interest group threatens him more. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.