KwaZulu-Natal is recording an average of 3,000 new COVID-19 cases each day. Courtesy #DStv403 DURBAN - KwaZulu-Natal is recording an average of 3,000 new COVID-19 cases each day. The province says it currently has more than 16,000 beds available and will be adding more over the coming days. COVID-19: KZN cases expected to soar - Karim eThekwini and uMgungundlovu continue to be the leading districts with more than half of all recorded infections. “Our daily COVID-19 positive cases are nearing 4000, as we observed that just yesterday [Saturday] alone we recorded 3 405 new cases,” said KZN Premier, Sihle Zikalala. District hot spot areas in KZN: eThekwini Umlazi, KwaMashu, Phoenix, Chatsworth, Inanda, Newlands, Tongaat, Pinetown, Westville, Ntuzuma,
Umgungundlovu Umsunduzi (CBD, Elandskop, Grange, Bisley, Imbali, LIncon Maede, Hayfields, Montain Rise, Northdale, Scottsvile, Sobantu
Montana (Townville)
Mkhambathini (Maqongqo)
Richmond (Thornville)
Harry Gwala Umzimkhulu
King Cethwayo Umlalazi (Nogobhoza reserve, Ezingwenya, Nkume, Island, Vuma, Eziqwaqweni, Edankweni, Imbizo, Emaqeleni, Umlalazi, Ezinkiliji, Amandawe)
Nkandla (Within Ekombe Hospital and Mashinga).
Umhlathuze (Ngwelezana Township, Jabulani, Matsana and Qalakabusha Correctional Services, Ngwelezana Township A & B section.
Mthonjaneni:(Melmoth Town, Thubalethu Phase 1-5, Mfanefile, Nkwenkwe, Mgabhi Store and Ndabazensangu area
Ilembe KwaDukuza. Mandeni
Ugu Port Shepstone, Gamalakhe, Margate, Murchison, Nzimakhwe, Harding, Scottburgh
Umkhanyakude Hlabisa
Umzinyathi Umvoti.
Pomeroy (Nhlanhleni)
Umsinga (Cosh wards, Esidakeni, Othulin Lwezulu
Zululand Abaqulusi (Mondlo, Vryheid Town, Bhekuzulu, Hlobane)
eDumbe (Paulpietersburg, Town, Tholakele
Ceza (Echibini Area, Brush area, Nsukazi area
Pongolo (Ncotshane, Kwa Lubisi)
Nongoma (Dabhasi, Maphophoma, Nongoma Town, Usuthu, White City
Uthukela Alfred Duma (Observation
Steadville
Accaciaville
Inkosi Langalibalele (Phangweni
C Section, CBD, Bhekuzulu,
Amajuba Newcastle: Osizweni, Madadeni.
Madlangeni: Utrect Town
Danhuuser:Durnacol, shepstopne Lake - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.