During this unprecedented time of the COVID-19 pandemic, it’s even more important to know how to use your payment tools to shop safely. SPONSORED - During this unprecedented time of the COVID-19 pandemic, it’s even more important to know how to use your payment tools to shop safely. Social distancing is an important practice to stay safe during this time, and your Absa bank card helps you to do this. 1. Use contactless to pay If your card has the contactless icon on it, it can be used to simply tap the point-of-sale device at the store from which you are buying goods and services. The benefits of contactless or tap-and-pay/tap-and-go payments are that your card stays clean from not being passed to anyone to process the transaction, the card doesn’t have to make contact with the point-of-sale device, and, if the transaction is for a low-value payment, you don’t have to touch the point-of-sale device to enter your PIN. 2. Shop online A reality of the COVID-19 virus is that every person who has it, has the ability to infect two additional people, and they can do the same, and so forth. We really should only be shopping for essential goods, and doing the rest online to limit our risk of infection. Your credit card allows you the ability to shop online and many banks have set up 3D Secure services for their customers. 3D Secure allows the merchant that you are using to communicate your request to purchase a service with your bank. Your bank then sends you a one-time PIN (OTP) which you enter to verify that it is you making the purchase, and not a fraudster. It is crucial for you to never share your password with anyone, and you should know that your bank will never call you to have your OTP read back to them for any reason. We encourage you to shop online during this period to stay safe and to be aware of the safety controls you have on your card when shopping online, to keep your card – and purchase – secure. 3. Be aware of fraudsters Banks have noted an increase in fraudulent activities during this time, with fraudsters sending messages to consumers that look as if they are from a bank. Pay attention to the messages that your bank sends you about staying safe and do not share your PIN or OTP with anyone, and do not click on any links that you are sent via email or SMS supposedly from your bank. Together we can stop the spread of COVID-19!