Eastern Cape Health MEC Sindiswa Gomba is blaming apartheid for the failed scooter project. She says weaknesses in the health system is linked to the design of apartheid infrastructure. The R10-million project was to transport patients in rural area to hospitals and clinics. Courtesy #DStv403 PORT ELIZABETH - The Parliamentary Health Portfolio Committee wants answers from the Department of Health in the Eastern Cape. Its Health MEC Sindiswa Gomba is being accused of blaming apartheid for the failed scooter project. Health Minister Zweli Mkhize found the scooter ambulances do not meet the basic criteria for transporting patients. READ: Eastern Cape to continue using scooters Gomba said the failure of the R10-million scooter project can be linked to the design of the apartheid infrastructure. “The COVID-19 pandemic not only came unexpectedly but also presented itself in a new dynamic. It has also exposed the weaknesses of our health system, and that is linked to the design of apartheid infrastructure," Gomba said. Gomba said the scooter project revealed inequalities in society and called the provincial government's decision to implement the programme a bold step in addressing the fundamental needs of citizens. READ: EC Health responds to R10m scooter backlash The project was to transport patients in rural areas to hospitals and clinics. The Democratic Alliance has called for Gomba's dismissal. Health Portfolio Committee member Sibongiseni Dhlomo said he is in discussions with the provincial Health MEC and parliament will be meeting with the Eastern Cape Health Department regarding the controversial program. "We are engaging with them and we want to have an understanding," Dhlomo said. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs. The DA calls for urgent intervention in the Eastern Cape health crisis. The Health MEC, Sindiswa Gomba aka 'Andidikwe' should be fired.She has tried to shift the blame for her own failings, blaming apartheid for the Scooter Scandal.#PresidentialImbizohttps://t.co/uqDOFVCWQ0