The prohibition of alcohol isn’t a long-term solution to relieving pressure on the country’s healthcare system. CAPE TOWN - The prohibition of alcohol isn’t a long-term solution to relieving pressure on the country’s healthcare system. This is according to the Medical Research Council, which is predicting the current ban on alcohol sales could last at least eight weeks. The council’ suggested to Parliament’s Health Committee that raising the legal drinking age to 21 years should be revisited. READ: COVID-19 in SA: Alcohol's impact on the public health system Over eight weeks of lockdown, the council estimates it could have freed up almost 18,000 beds in the country’s general wards and around 13,000 beds in intensive care. The council says while the benefits can’t be disputed, an indefinite booze ban is unsustainable. “I’m not sure we can push the whole thing back into a bottle and go back to prohibition, I think we need to look at having a more responsible, better-regulated system," said Professor Charles Parry. WATCH: Mkhize says alcohol ban evidence-based "I think we can do a lot without prohibiting alcohol, controlling it better along with the ideas I put forward in my last table. It needs to be far better regulated, not prohibited.” Among alternatives proposed by the council under Alert Level 3 include reducing the number of sales days to three, limiting the quantities purchased and reducing the production capacity of the liquor industry. In the longer term, it says government should consider raising the legal drinking age and the unit price of alcohol. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.