COVID-19 has affected many businesses big and small. But the lockdown, coupled with load-shedding, and a curfew is destroying some of them. And not even businesses providing personal protective equipment are being spared. Ayesha Ismail reports. Courtesy #DStv403   CAPE TOWN - COVID-19 has affected many businesses big and small but the lockdown, coupled with load-shedding, and a curfew is destroying some of them. Not even businesses providing personal protective equipment are being spared. READ: Over 3mn jobs lost as a result of COVID-19: study Some of these women, like many others, lost their jobs when clothing factories closed down. When they were presented with an opportunity to work again, they grabbed it with both hands but that too has been cut short. CMT businesswoman, Faldelah Abrahams said, ”we were not prepared for this lockdown. With immediate effect, these companies cancelled their contracts so we were left without work, without government support without any grants.” Abrahams employs women from her area in Bonteheuwel. For three months during the hard lockdown, they earned nothing. During Level 3, Abrahams was happy to get some work again providing PPE for a private hospital group in the Western Cape. Mindful of the dangers of COVID-19 and working from home, Abrahams had to decide between lives and livelihoods. READ: Joburg EMS workers want full pay “I made a decision. These people need to eat these people need to live so we took on the contract. Just when we got ourselves working in a system and then bang load shedding comes. If you work on a Saturday, Sunday evening there is load-shedding how do you catch up with two hours? Two hours is a lot in a productive day,” she said. She says load-shedding and the added stress of a curfew are hampering them in meeting their daily deadlines. But despite the many challenges, Abrahams and her staff say they feel humbled and honoured to be part of an essential service to help deal with the pandemic. Abrahams says she wants to be part of a productive society and help reduce poverty in her community. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.