Small-scale tobacco farmers say they've been left poor and hungry. Courtesy #DStv403 BUFFELSPRUIT, Mpumalanga - Small-scale tobacco farmers say they've been left poor and hungry. That's because South Africans haven't been able to buy tobacco products since the lockdown started. Government says it's trying to save lives. Black Farmers Association chairperson Ntando Shadrack Sibisi is one of 63 small-scale farmers selling to Limpopo Tobacco Processors. “When I look at the land that I’m standing on it saddens me to know that since March I knew that we were being kicked out of business,” Sibisi said. “And to reach this point in time where the season is supposed to be starting and no sign on when the ban will be lifted, it means we are being kicked out of business by our government.” READ: Tobacco battle in court It’s the small players in this large industry, who are struggling the most. The farmers are desperate to start making a living again. “I thought that when I ventured into the tobacco business I was not only trying to help myself and my family, I was also in another way trying to assist government because I’m not working alone. I work with the community,” Sibisi said. It’s estimated the tax revenue lost due to the ban, exceeds R4-billion. READ: Govt's alcohol, tobacco ban tweet befuddles SA Gladys Hlebeya, a tobacco farmer, says that money could’ve been used to feed the poor, instead of the R350 special COVID-19 relief grant. While it’s not yet clear when the ban on the sale of tobacco products will be lifted, farmers are hoping it will be sooner rather than later as their livelihoods and those of their workers, depend on it. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs. Today we went to a number of #tobacco small-scale farmers. They've been negatively impacted by the ban. This time of the year they prepare the land for the new season which starts in April. But because its not clear when the ban will be lifted, they haven't been able to plant. pic.twitter.com/ahrEWGMCE6