61-year-old Juliette Dakada was also beaten and stabbed to death on Friday morning. An unknown number of armed robbers had gained entry into her home - and also raped her 21-year-old granddaughter. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - The husband of a grandmother who was raped and killed in Soweto says he is feeling empty. 61-year-old Juliette Dakada was also beaten and stabbed to death. An unknown number of armed robbers had gained entry into her home and also raped her 21-year-old granddaughter. Gogo Juliette Dakada and her granddaughter were asleep in their home along Dzana Street in Dobsonville, Soweto on Friday morning. Then, a group of armed robbers entered the house using this sliding door. Dakada was raped, beaten and stabbed. She was rushed to hospital but pronounced dead on arrival. READ: Three men arrested for rape of seven-year-old girl Her granddaughter - Nomvula Dakada - who was also attacked, was discharged from hospital over the weekend and he's not coping. Her grandfather says he is devastated. “Death is inevitable but the nature does not fit the victim. It’s about the way the person died that is troubling me. Right now I have mixed emotions," said Philip Matsoane "I am angry, I am sad. I don’t know. Today is the second day that my children don’t have a mother and my grandchildren don’t have a grandmother. And I have also lost a part of me. I don’t what to do or day. All I have to do is keep strong for the kids. That’s the best I can do”. Community members marched against the heinous crime on Saturday - and held a candlelight vigil outside the house. They also decided to take the law into their own hands. READ: Shock over alleged child rape at hospital On Friday afternoon, they apprehended and assaulted two men, who were rescued by police. Nomvula Dakada doesn't just have to try and come to terms with losing her loved one in a brutal way. She has to deal with the trauma of the attack on herself, one that is indescribable. The men were hospitalised but later discharged. No suspects have been arrested but Gauteng’s Acting Provincial Commissioner Johan Ndlovu has ordered that maximum resources be mobilised urgently to find the culprits.