Although there’s still no clear indication when cinemas will be back in business, management says when the time comes the public will be welcomed back with all safety protocols in place. Tanya Nefdt has more on this story. #eNCA Courtesy #DStv403 CAPE TOWN - While theatres and cinemas across the country have been given the green light to reopen, they have not given opening dates to the public. So South Africans still don’t know when they can watch movies on the big screen once again or see a play. "There are two issues that we need clarity on," said Chantelle Burrows, Nu Metro's marketing executive. READ: US movie theatres waiting for summer to reopen "The first one is the 50 person cap, that's what government is saying 50 people but is per cinema screen or per complex, those are the things we that needed clarity on before we can actually open. "The second thing is the availability of content, so the content obviously comes majority from the US and that content is constantly moving out." Theatres are in a similar boat. READ: Hollywood restarts movie production with 'Jurassic World: Dominion' and 'Avatar' The Baxter in Cape Town, for example, has five different theatre spaces with a full capacity of more than 1,500 guests. "Our main theatre is close to a 680 seater to just allow 50 people in that venue, the costs of mounting and staging a production... it costs a lot of money," said Fahiem Stellenboom, Baxter marketing manager. Although there’s still no clear indication when cinemas will be back in business, management is optimistic, saying when the time comes, the public will be welcomed back with all safety protocols in place. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.