File: Fita wants the government to lift its ban on the sale of tobacco. JOHANNESBURG - An application for leave to appeal by the Fair Trade Independent Tobacco Association (Fita) on the ban on the sale of tobacco products is before the Pretoria High Court on Wednesday. The case was presented via Zoom. Fita stated a bench of three judges erred in its decision to agree with the government that a ban should be in place. The same three judges that dismissed the previous application will decide whether or not the judgment can be appealed. READ: No postponement of tobacco challenge Fita argues that they are not disputing that smoking is harmful or dangerous, but are requesting clarity on the link between smokers and COVID-19 putting a strain on the healthcare system. The association's lawyer Arnold Subel said the argument concerns whether the matter has reasonable prospects of success in a higher court and will set out ten grounds that will justify their arguments. Fita argued that the medical evidence used to justify the tobacco ban from the WHO and HSRC by government is inconclusive, and to date the government's legal team has not responded to it. READ: Legal battle over tobacco ban delayed until August He said that a higher court will also have to determine whether or not the illicit market has blossomed since the ban came into effect and if it can be said, that the ban has lead to a cessation of smoking. Subel said insufficient weight was within the judgment. He said only when absolutely necessary a ban should be imposed, especially because there is insufficient evidence to support the rational around the ban. Subel said there is a reasonable prospect that the Supreme Court of Appeal would find a different finding on the ban on the sale of tobacco products. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.