COVID-19 frontline workers are fighting a silent battle for their mental well-being. The Limpopo province has launched a psychological support hub for nurses and doctors to encourage them to talk about their experiences. eNCA reporter Tshegohaco Moagi has more. Courtesy #DStv403 POLOKWANE - COVID-19 frontline workers are fighting a silent battle for their mental well-being. Recognising this, the Limpopo province launched a psychological support hub for nurses and doctors last week to encourage them to talk about their experiences. It’s a daily challenge to cope with the pressure of their jobs and the anxiety. READ: COVID-19: Frontline workers risking their lives to save ours Doctors and nurses in this province are being reminded there are clinical psychologists on call whenever they need to talk. Some nurses have been admitted to mental hospitals, unable to cope with the ongoing pressure. But their colleagues say they have to continue with their duties and stay positive around patients. "We treat them with happiness; we don’t frown our faces and show them we are afraid," said Damaris Chueu, acting operational nursing manager. READ: More healthcare staff test positive for COVID-19 "When they see you in a uniform, people will say you are working with a COVID patient, don’t come near. This really frustrates us because we are here to help them. "We don’t just put this uniform on to come to work and play. We are here for the public. When they see us, they should not be afraid of us," Chueu said. For the frontline workers, it’s the little gestures of appreciation they value the most. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.