Private early childhood development centres may reopen immediately. That's the ruling by Judge Hans Fabricius at the high court in Pretoria. The case against the Department of Social Development was taken to court by trade union Solidarity. Let's speak now to attorney Antonie van Wyk who represented the SA Childcare Association in the case. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG- Solidarity has scored a victory in the fight to have early childhood development center’s reopened immediately. That's the ruling by Judge Hans Fabricius at the high court in Pretoria. Solidarity approached the court to fight what they argued was government prejudicing privately owned ECD facilities. Fabricius outlined that the expert evidence submitted sufficiently proved that children benefit greatly from being in a learning environment. READ: Save the Children SA to address early childhood development He added that children need mental stimulation and access to nutrition programmes, particularly for those from disadvantaged backgrounds. The judge also relied on the scientific evidence that suggests children are less likely to die from COVID-19, that they are less infectious than adults and have been found to suffer milder symptoms of the virus. READ: Only Grade 6, 11 and Grade R will return to school on Monday Children were less likely to infect educators. The ruling paves the way for these facilities to open but the judgment makes it clear that all ECD facilities should follow  COVID-19 guidelines and precautions in order for learning to resume. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.