File: Former Proteas captain Faf du Plessis says all lives don’t matter until black lives matter. JOHANNESBURG - Former Proteas captain Faf Du Plessis is the latest cricket player to back the Black Lives Matter movement. Du Plessis says all lives don’t matter until black lives matter. In an impassioned and powerful statement released on Friday, Du Plessis admits that after introspection he has a greater understanding after getting it wrong before. READ: CSA to decide stance on Black Lives Matter movement “I’ve remained silent, with the intent to listen, but not respond,” said Du Plessis. “Slowing down my point of view, but quicker to hear the pain of someone else. I knew that words would be lacking and that my understanding is not close to where it needs to be. “I surrender my opinions and take the knee as an intercessor. I acknowledge that South Africa is still hugely divided by racism and it is my personal responsibility to do my best to empathise, hear the stories, learn and then be part of the solution with my thoughts, words and actions.” In the last couple of months I have realized that we must choose our battles. We are surrounded by many injustices in our country that require urgent attention and action to fix them. If we wait only for the ones that attack us personally, we will always live for “my way vs your way” and that way leads us nowhere. So I’ve remained silent, with the intent to listen, but not respond. Slowing down my point of view, but quicker to hear the pain of someone else. I knew that words would be lacking and that my understanding is not close to where it needs to be.  I surrender my opinions and take the knee as an intercessor. I acknowledge that South Africa is still hugely divided by racism and it is my personal responsibility to do my best to emphasize, hear the stories, learn and then be part of the solution with my thoughts, words and actions  I have gotten it wrong before. Good intentions were failed by a lack of perspective when I said on a platform that - I don’t see colour. In my ignorance I silenced the struggles of others by placing my own view on it. A race problem is a human race problem, if one part of the body hurts ,we all stop, we empathize, we get perspective, we learn and then we tend to the hurting part of the body.  So I am saying that all lives don’t matter UNTIL black lives matter. I’m speaking up now, because if I wait to be perfect, I never will. I want to leave a legacy of empathy. The work needs to continue for the change to come and whether we agree or disagree, conversation is the vehicle for change. A post shared by  Faf du plessis (@fafdup) on Jul 16, 2020 at 11:20pm PDT The 36-year old earlier said that he doesn’t see colour, but now accepts that he may have silenced the struggle. “I have gotten it wrong before. Good intentions were failed by a lack of perspective when I said on a platform that I don’t see colour. In my ignorance I silenced the struggles of others by placing my own view on it.” READ: Racial divisions laid bare in SA cricket South African cricket is in the spotlight after a social media storm involving former Proteas players who criticised Lungi Ngidi for wanting to address the Black Lives Matter within the Proteas' dressing room. Proteas batsman Rassie van Dussen was one of the first to speak out in support of Ngidi.