Paris Saint-Germain's Brazilian forward Neymar (C) vies for the ball with Saint-Etienne's French defender Mathieu Debuchy during the French Cup final football match. PARIS - Neymar scored the winning goal as Paris Saint-Germain defeated 10-man Saint-Etienne 1-0 in the French Cup final on Friday, the first competitive fixture in the country since March 11 following the coronavirus pandemic. PSG secured the first of a potential three trophies this summer, claiming a record-extending 13th French Cup with the League Cup final against Lyon to come next Friday before the resumption of their European campaign in Portugal. "It was very difficult, which is perhaps the best thing," said coach Thomas Tuchel, whose side added to their Ligue 1 title awarded in April after the season was ended prematurely. READ: French football season declared over, PSG awarded title The final at the Stade de France was the first official match in one of Europe's top football nations to allow fans to attend since March, albeit in severely restricted numbers with just 2,805 spectators -- including French President Emmanuel Macron -- inside the 80,000-seater venue. PSG had racked up 20 goals without reply in three friendlies building up to the final, but Yvann Macon's crunching tackle on Neymar in the first minute suggested no such goodwill would be afforded by Saint-Etienne in their first French Cup final appearance since 1982. The challenge set the tone for a fractious opening period and Denis Bouanga was inches from firing Saint-Etienne ahead when his strike rebounded back off Keylor Navas's left-hand post. READ: Cancelling football season could cost Europe's clubs billions: report Tuchel faces an anxious wait over the fitness of Kylian Mbappe ahead of next month's Champions League quarter-final against Atalanta after the France star limped off in tears during the first half with an ankle injury. The World Cup winner was later seen emerging from the tunnel on crutches following a dreadful challenge that resulted in the dismissal of Saint-Etienne captain Loic Perrin. "Everyone is worried. Everyone who saw the foul is worried. Of course I'm worried," said Tuchel. "I'm very happy because we won but we have to stay patient because we don't have any news. I think he will undergo tests tonight."