The timing of State Security Minister Ayanda Dlodlo’s visit to Botswana seemed suspicious to some. #DStv403 PRETORIA - The Presidency has rubbished reports that State Security Minister Ayanda Dlodlo’s planned visit to Botswana is related to a legal matter between that government and the president’s sister-in-law, Bridgette Motsepe-Radebe. Dlodlo was supposedly headed for Gabarone as the president's special envoy to meet President Mokwegetsi Masisi to discuss the customs union, but the meeting was cancelled. The timing of Dlodlo’s visit to Botswana seemed suspicious to some. WATCH: Motsepe-Radebe hits back over Botswana bank scandal Just last week, AfriForum announced it would be representing the Botswana government in a case against the president’s sister-in-law. Botswana alleges that Motsepe-Radebe was involved in the theft of over R140-billion from its coffers. Motsepe-Radebe, who spoke to eTV news last week, has denied all allegations. READ: Botswana appoints AfriForum in case involving Motsepe-Radebe She said this is a scandal targeting two women who are being falsely accused. The clock is ticking for the South African government to respond to Lobby Group, Afriforum's plea, for it to co-operate with the Botswana government. Courtesy of #DStv403 A political science lecturer from Botswana University has warned if the matter surrounding Motsepe-Radebe isn’t resolved, it may seriously strain relations between the two neighbouring countries. Keaoleboga Dipogiso said there's been a controversy surrounding the appointment of AfriForum to assist the Botswana government in that regard. READ: Botswana slaps Bridgette Radebe with travel restrictions "It is expected that countries which have cordial relations do assist each other when there's a case of this magnitude. It is expected that both countries assist each other to resolve such a case." The Law Society of Botswana has also criticised its government, saying it should not have appointed AfriForum. Local lawyers in Botswana say its government should lead by example and promote basic standards, refraining from funding organisations that advocate for racial inequality.