Actors Amber Heard (L) and Johnny Depp attend The Art of Elysium 2016 HEAVEN Gala presented by Vivienne Westwood & Andreas Kronthaler at 3LABS on January 9, 2016 in Culver City, California. LONDON - American actress Amber Heard told London's High Court that her ex-husband Johnny Depp had threatened to kill her, testifying on Monday as a witness in the Hollywood star's libel action against a British tabloid. Depp is suing News Group Newspapers, publishers of the Sun newspaper, over a 2018 article which labelled him a "wife beater" and questioned his casting in the "Fantastic Beasts and Where To Find Them" franchise. The 57-year-old actor denies ever being violent with her or with any other woman. READ: Johnny Depp denies slapping ex-wife In a sworn written statement to the court, released as she began her oral evidence in the witness box, Heard said she had been severely abused by Depp. "Some incidents were so severe that I was afraid he was going to kill me, either intentionally or just by losing control and going too far," she said in the statement. "He explicitly threatened to kill me many times, especially later in our relationship." Heard (34) said the actor would obsess about her appearance. READ: Johnny Depp appears in UK court for libel case "The physical abuse included punching, slapping, kicking, head-butting and choking me, as well as throwing me into things, pulling me by my hair, and shoving me or pushing me to the ground. He threw things at me, especially glass bottles," she said. Heard also said that after his rages had abated, Depp would blame his actions on an alter ego he would call "the monster". Heard was asked by Eleanor Laws, a lawyer for Depp, about allegations from his side that the couple had clashed over whether to sign a pre-nuptial agreement and that she was motivated by money. Heard said she was "not interested in Johnny's money, never have been". She said the actor had told her he would rip up any pre-nuptial agreement and told her "the only way out is death".