A group representing around 3,500 South Africans employed abroad, has made an urgent application for an interdict against the South African government. Members of the organisation, Locked in South Africa want to go back to the countries where they have jobs. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - A group representing around 3,500 South Africans employed abroad has made an urgent application for an interdict against the South African government. Members of the organisation, Locked in South Africa (Lisa), want to go back to the countries where they have jobs. The ministries of International Relations and Home Affairs are currently reviewing each of the applications for permission to board international flights. WATCH: Stranded South Africans brought home It is estimated that South Africans working abroad have lost R60-million in the past month, simply because they're stuck here. The organisation wants government to help speed up the process so these people can return to the countries where they're employed. Some stand to lose their jobs if they don't go back by the end of this month. READ: South Africans repatriated from US unhappy Many are teachers in Asian countries. About 1,500 South Africans want to go back to the USA where they work in the agricultural sector, assisting local family farms The US government has pleaded for their return as they play a crucial role in the American food production chain. READ: Government-led COVID-19 repatriation process criticised 500 are seafarers who, according to Maritime law, are exempt from local lockdown regulations. They will be replaced if they don’t return to their vessels by the beginning of June. The group is calling for new draft regulations to be gazetted, giving citizens who are employed or living abroad blanket permission to return there at their own cost. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.