EFF leader Julius Malema also said the government should reconsider its decision to re-open schools for Grade 7 and 12 pupils on Monday. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - EFF leader Julius Malema said the government should reconsider its decision to reopen schools for Grade 7 and 12 pupils on Monday. Malema said many schools will not be ready and sending children back to school will expose them to the virus. He also called on South Africans not to go to church. READ: Parents worried about safety of children at schools: online survey On Tuesday, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced churches, synagogues, mosques and other recognised places of worship could resume services under Level 3, but limited to 50 people. But the EFF says this is senseless and reckless. "Despite publicly declaring that the government’s COVID-19 response will be guided by science, the president decided to bow to the selfish pressure of private white monopoly capital," Malema said. READ: COVID-19: Reopening churches a 'reckless' decision, says expert "This is because if all our people were given payment holidays, guaranteed social grants, free water and electricity, then the only people who were losing were the capitalists because they were not making a profit. "As a result, they sabotaged the lockdown," Malema said. COVID-19: EFF rejects easing of lockdown restrictions He also said private hospitals should be nationalised to enable people to access medical care and spoke out against the sale and purchase of alcohol during the lockdown. "EFF must not be shaken when it pronounced itself on alcohol. Comrades lose votes on principle. This alcohol is going to compromise hospitals. There won’t be space for COVID-19 patients," Malema said. Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.