Conferencing venues, festivals, casinos remain prohibited under #Level3. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG – Accommodation services such as hotels, B&Bs and guest lodges have been permitted to operate during alert level three but only for business travel. No leisure services will be allowed during the period. Tourism Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane made the announcement during a ministerial briefing that outlined the operational and additional measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic in the tourism sector. Restaurants are opened for deliveries, collections and drive-thrus. Patrons aren’t allowed to gather in queues inside the facilities. Restaurants that sell liquor are allowed to do so under level three lockdown regulations, which permit for takeaways and prohibit onsite consumption. READ: In the absence of tourists, locals reclaim their cities Public and private game drives have also been opened for self-drive excursions. Hiking and hunting activities have also been permitted under alert level three. Casinos will remain closed while inter-provincial travel will be allowed but not for leisure travel, tourism or recreational purposes. Domestic travel will be allowed again under level three lockdown. Travellers will be required to provide paperwork to confirm the reasons for travel. READ: Kubayi-Ngubane: Local tourism likely only to start in December Kubayi-Ngubane also stated that conference events such as entertainment festivals are still prohibited. “We do note that in terms of conference facilities such as the ICC, some of them have been converted to assist in the fight against COVID-19 and those who are providing facilities for social relief platforms such as distribution of food parcels, those facilities are allowed to continue with the work in the fight against COVID-19,” Kubayi-Ngubane said. The minister also announced that the application window for the COVID-19 relief fund in the tourism industry will close on 31 May. The fund provides for a once off R50,000 capped grant. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.