HealthDocs is one of South Africa’s leading provider of digital health platforms for medical practitioners, patients, research entities, corporations and government. PARTNER CONTENT - Due to the stringent requirements placed on companies within South Africa regarding the monitoring of its employees as companies return to work, HealthDocs has developed an easy to use digital employee monitoring solution that addresses WHO and local regulatory compliance whilst also ensuring best practice management of the health of the company’s employees at an affordable cost. HealthDocs is one of South Africa’s leading provider of digital health platforms for medical practitioners, patients, research entities, corporations and government. The digital solution consists of two integrated systems, namely a Corporate COVID-19 Compliance Management and Reporting Platform, and an Employee Self Screening and Monitoring App. COVID-19 Corporate Management Platform The COVID-19 Corporate Management Platform, which is web-based, allows employers to daily monitor their employees in compliance with regulations determined by government. Real time feeds are also received from employees conducting self- screening and monitoring via their employee App. This allows employers to manage the health of their employees both at the business location and whilst employees are working remotely. The platform also screens visitors entering your business to ensure that potential risk is managed effectively. Employees experiencing symptoms are proactively managed and cases created to manage the risk to both the employee and the business. When a case is created, employers will be able to access the employee’s relevant contact lists and travel history to manage associated risk. The platform also records and tracks the disease lifecycle of employees from contact to testing to self-quarantine, self-isolation or those who have been admitted or discharged from hospital. Patient tracking information is also shared with the platform to inform employers of the location of employees when symptoms are captured. Should employees provide consent, the platform can store pathology results together with any other applicable documentation. An internal messaging system enables employers to communicate efficiently with their employees via push notifications and SMS. A number of graphical and analytical reports are available within the platform to assist employers with the management and analysis of data, including compliance reports. Employee Self Screening and Monitoring App The Employee App is available for free and can be downloaded from the Apple App Store and Google Play stores. The App allows for daily self- screening and monitoring. The symptoms are provided in real time to the Corporate Management Platform to ensure that employers are in the position to monitor and manage the health of their employees. The App captures risk metrics such as chronic conditions, lifestyle conditions and other comorbidities that are required for the proactive management of the health of employees, however only a health risk profile is shared with the employer. The App also creates an automated 14-day symptom tracker should employee become symptomatic which automatically creates a COVID-19 case in the Corporate Management Platform. The 14-day tracker also caters for the capturing of contact lists and historical travel information that may be required for contact tracing in the event of a positive diagnosis. In addition to providing the employee with COVID-19 relevant information in the form of documents and videos, the App also provides the employee with a complete electronic health record platform. Other than the COVID-19 information, no medical information, clinical metrics or documents contained in the App are shared with employers. For more information or to obtain a quote or arrange a demonstration, please contact George Rudman at info@healthdocs.co.za or visit www.healthdocs.co.za. 