It's been another frustrating day for social grant recipients. Thousands of senior citizens and the disabled have been waiting in long queues for hours. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Sassa has confirmed that a technical glitch in the payment system has lead to thousands of senior citizens and the disabled being unable to collect their money. Sassa spokesperson Paseka Letsatsi says response teams were dispatched to deal with the problem. "There is no one who can say whatever we are observing is good, we need to make sure that we put more of our work staff and we need to make sure that we put more effort to ensure that the most vulnerable are protected. READ: Long queues as government rolls out R200bn grants pay out Hence the decision that we took to say, we need to start with those disability grants and older persons grants and our thing is that we need to make sure that people don't have to wait too long to get their money", said Letsatsi. He says the agency will do more to educate people, especially the elderly, about other means of payment they can access to receive grant money. "There are multiple forms of payment, in which we think our beneficiaries should take advantage of them. Beneficiaries can get their grant from the post office, at the merchant and they can also get their grant at any bank of their choice", he added. Sassa says it will do more to educate people, especially the elderly, about other means of payment they can access to receive grant money. Last month President Cyril Ramaphosa announced an increase in grants to alleviate the plight of the vulnerable during the lockdown. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.