File: The SAB has pleaded with government to allow the transportation of its inventory across depots and warehouses amid the lockdown. JOHANNESBURG - The lockdown restrictions may see a spill for the South African Breweries (SAB). According to SAB, the company has been unable to package and transport beer inventories between its depots and warehouses. “SAB risk losing - 400 million bottles worth of beer in current liquid inventory which will prevent SAB from operating at full capacity for at least four months,” SAB said in reply to questions by eNCA.com. READ: Ramaphosa rejects calls for lifting of alcohol ban This means SAB will need to dump 130-million litres which equates to 400 million bottles of ‘dumpis’. The SAB has pleaded with government to allow it to move the inventory. SAB says it “has not initiated any new brewing since 23 March 2020 nor have they sold, or transported for sale, any beer to anywhere in South Africa since 26 March 2020 in accordance with the lockdown regulations.” During the lockdown, the brewery says it has been fermenting and bottling alcohol been fermenting and bottling alcohol as part of the orderly wind down with skeletal staff. However, brewery facilities have a very low limit legally at which they can store alcohol. READ: Presidency responds to Gauteng Liquor Forum over alcohol ban “For SAB to be able to continue packing the current brew, they have to be able to transport the alcohol to SAB owned warehouses for safekeeping. SAB are not legally allowed to store brewed beer once it reaches a certain capacity. Once breweries reach permissible limits, the alcohol needs to be stored on offsite SAB owned facilities. As the movement of alcohol is not permissible – the beer would in this unique instance need to be destroyed,” said SAB. SAB pleads with government The SAB says the lockdown is having a severe impact and although it's not asking for the sale of beer, the brewery has asked government for beer to be transported across its depots and warehouses. It says government stands to lose up to R2-billion in excise tax. Jobs at SAB According to SAB, if it had to dispose of the alcohol, this would prevent it from operating at full capacity for at least four months. It says jobs would also be affected. “Another 75,000 jobs would be negatively impacted through the company’s domestic supply chain.” It adds that the disposing of the beer will be a massive challenge and cause serious environmental risk.  - By Donald Lobelo - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.