President Cyril Ramaphosa has praised the KwaZulu- Natal government for its handling of the coronavirus. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa says the worst is yet to come regarding the spread of COVID-19. The president does, however, believe that there are structures and facilities in place to deal with the pandemic. Ramaphosa is in Kwazulu-Natal to assess the province's response to COVID-19. WATCH: People in quarantine refused tests He is also expected to inspect several quarantine facilities on Tuesday afternoon. "I am afraid that we have to plan for the worst and we have been informed that the worst is still coming. We are going to get more people infected but the most important thing is that we ensure that we lessen the pace through which these infections are set to take place. We will be able to do that by getting ready with all these facilities and by ensuring that there continues to be social distancing and people continue to wash their hands regularly", said Ramaphosa. Ramaphosa also praised the KZN government for its handling of the coronavirus. READ: Another KZN hospital records COVID-19 cases "I applauded you for the way you've also utilised the MEC champions, including yourself, in giving leadership at the district level", he adds. Meanwhile, KZN Premier Sihle Zikalala is confident the province is ready to tackle COVID-19. He and his command council briefed Ramaphosa about the province's readiness. READ: Ramaphosa in KZN to assess provincial response plans Zikalala has also thanked the private sector for being hands-on in the battle against the pandemic. Private companies have donated ninety hospital beds so far. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.