A group of lawyers is questioning the constitutionality of the president's decision to delegate executive functions to the National Coronavirus Command Council. The council comprises only some cabinet ministers. The lawyers have written to President Cyril Ramaphosa, wanting clarity on the matter. #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - The presidency says decisions in the National Command Council (NCC) are finalised when a consensus is reached. This is in response to a group of lawyers questioning the constitutionality of the president's decision to delegate executive functions to the National Command Council (NCC). The council comprises only some cabinet ministers. The lawyers have written to President Cyril Ramaphosa on the statutory authority of the council The presidency clarified that decisions aren't made solely by President Cyril Ramaphosa. Luqmaan Hassan from RHK Attorneys and his client Erin Richards said there has been a lack of transparency from the government around the limitations and powers of the NCCC. The spokesperson for the Presidency, Khusela Diko responded on Friday. Courtesy of #DStv403 Presidency spokesperson Khusela Diko says there are strict rules on how cabinet works. She further clarified that after the initial meeting of the council it became clear that all members of cabinet needed to be included. READ: Parliament to resume with immediate effect Luqmaan Hassan from RHK Attorneys and Erin Richards (through RKH) said there has been a lack of transparency from the government around the limitations and powers of the NCC. Hassan said there have been inconsistent explanations on what the command council does. "Then we've heard that it's a body whose decisions are being ratified so there is no absolute certainty on what that body is and what its functions are particularly," Hassan said. "The problem is, as it appears to us, is that there is a citizenry of 60 million people that is possibly on the information we've got, subject to the whims of 19 ministers who are exercising powers that are unchecked," Richards said. READ: NCC reports on challenges, successes of COVID-19 strategies Richards said the ambiguity around the NCCC makes it practically difficult for Parliament to exercise an oversight role. Presidency spokesperson Khusela Diko said there isn't any intention on the part of the president or Cabinet to have any cloak-and-dagger issues around the NCC. "That command council is not a constitutional structure, it is a co-ordinating structure of Cabinet. You will remember when the president first announced the registering of the state of disaster, he indicated that" Diko said. WATCH: National State of Disaster declared "The first meeting of the Coronavirus Council it was clear from that point that you couldn't have only a few ministers there, because the coronavirus and its impact was not limited to certain departments. "It was affecting all of society and that group taskforce was then subsequently expanded to include all members of Cabinet," she explained. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8 am to 4 pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.