President Cyril Ramaphosa says he was part of the decision to reconsider the sale of tobacco products For more we're joined by eNCA political editor Vuyo Mvoko. Courtesy #DStv403 PRETORIA - President Cyril Ramaphosa says he was part of the decision to reconsider the sale of tobacco products. Ramaphosa initially announced that cigarette sales would be permitted during level four of the lockdown. A week later Co-operative Governance Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma backtracked on that decision, earning widespread criticism. In his weekly newsletter, the president says the National Coronavirus Command Council, which he chairs, carefully discussed the matter before taking a collective decision to extend the prohibition. “Every regulation we have put in place has been carefully considered. Along the way, there has been consultation with medical experts, various constituencies and different industries. We have been guided by international bodies and the experience of other countries. “The reality is that we are sailing in uncharted waters. There is still a great deal about the epidemiology of the virus that is unknown. It is better to err on the side of caution than to pay the devastating price of a lapse in judgment in future.” READ: Tobacco Association takes action against smoking ban While the decision is controversial, the president says, it's wrong to suggest that he and members of the executive do or say whatever they want. “Listening to our people and their concerns during this period has been one of the distinguishing features of how we as government have managed this pandemic,” Ramaphosa said. “Under these extraordinary circumstances, as government, as individuals and as a society we will at times make mistakes. When these occur, we will correct them. But we must carry on, losing neither our nerve nor our resolve. “The situation in which we find ourselves demands courage and patience. It requires goodwill and trust between you, the citizen, and your government, and between each other.” - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.