The Zithabiseni quarantine facility in Mpumalanga has been ordered to close immediately. Courtesy #DStv403 CAPE TOWN - The Zithabiseni quarantine facility in Mpumalanga has been ordered to close immediately. The High Court in Pretoria has given the government two weeks to explain why this derelict resort was deemed suitable for quarantine purposes but, almost 100 South Africans have complained about six other state-owned quarantine facilities that seem to be in similar condition. Opposition parties have asked for the full list of quarantine sites to be released so that they can be inspected. WATCH: People in quarantine refused tests The Public Works and Infrastructure Department budgeted R28-million for quarantine facilities at private hotels, like The Ranch in Limpopo, where South Africans repatriated from China were hosted. But many of the 4,400 people currently in quarantine, are staying at government-owned resorts, like Zithabiseni in Mpumalanga. READ: COVID-19: SA in touch with Madagascar over herbal 'treatment' People at facilities in Lephalale, Upington, Modimolle and Springbok have approached the Freedom Front Plus for help. "All of these complaints were actually about lack of electricity, lack of hygiene, lack of water, lack of food, lack of beds. And the photos we received while we are getting these complaints you can see the facilities are not very good,” said FF Plus MP Philip Van Staden. Van Staden says repatriated citizens complained about being housed at the Transnet facility since a month ago but Public Works Minister Patricia de Lille, said this week her department did not approve this facility. The department is responsible for identifying quarantine sites, and De Lille says it's the Health Department's job to inspect and approve the sites before people are moved there. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.