It’s alleged he was brutally killed at the hands of soldiers during the lockdown. JOHANNESBURG - It’s alleged he was brutally killed at the hands of soldiers during the lockdown. But a National Defence Force inquiry report, claims its members had nothing to do with the death of Collins Khosa. Now, the legal team for the Alexandra man’s family is preparing to challenge this report in court, as the SANDF failed to interview any of the relatives. Relatives of Collins Khosa claim the 40-year-old was choked, beaten, and ridiculed by sjambok-wielding soldiers, who’d approached him and his brother-in-law, about drinking in the yard of his Alex home on Good Friday. READ: SANDF clears soldiers in Collins Khosa case The court ordered the SANDF to investigate, and an army inquiry now claims that, the pair allegedly undermined two female soldiers, and that the only force the officers used was, quote, “clapping and pushing”. The Khosa family’s lawyer Wikus Steyl says it’s rubbish. “The soldiers in the report further says that they interacted with Collins and his brother-in-law because there was an open glass of alcohol in his yard. That is ridiculous. It’s never been illegal under the lockdown to have alcohol in your own property, you cannot be in the street and Collins wasn’t in the street. That still doesn’t give the SANDF to assault, and nevermind kill Collins Khosa,” Steyl said. While the inquiry has cleared the soldiers, Defence Minister, Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, says the probe is not done yet. READ: Collins Khosa matter not open for public discussion: Mapisa-Nqakula “It’s a matter which I do not want to comment on, precisely because it’s still under investigation, and in terms of the court, it’s, in fact, a sub judice matter,” she said. The National Defence Union, meanwhile, believes, the findings are irregular and suspicious, and it’s considering joining as a friend of the court. Collins Khosa's family is challenging the Defence Force's report that clears its members of having a hand in his death. Khosa died in early April, allegedly after an altercation with four soldiers who accused him and his brother-in-law of breaking the lockdown regulations by drinking alcohol outside their house. eTV reporter, Graeme Rauben-heimer is following that story for us. Courtesy #DStv403