Whatever Wealth means to you, Standard Bank’s advisory, insurance and investment solutions are tailored to you and your family’s unique aspirations, no matter where you are on your Wealth journey. PARTNER CONTENT - One definition of wealth is an abundance of a resource. That resource could be many different things to everyone, depending on what matters most to you. For some, wealth is always going to mean money; for others it could be more than just money. It could be about experiences and freedom, living a desired lifestyle, being able to protect the dreams, goals and ambitions you have for yourself and your family and knowing that the generational needs of your families are taken care of. So why does this matter? Why do you need to understand what wealth means to you? It matters because your happiness and success will ultimately be tied to your definition of wealth, regardless of what others think. And it isn’t always easy to determine what matters the most to you. Once you establish your very definition of wealth you can use it to live a more fulfilled life by shifting your mindset, saving money wherever you can, making sure you get maximum value out of everything you buy, and ensuring that what you spend your money on will in the long run help you achieve true wealth. Everyone’s wealth journey will be different, so whether you’re looking into taking out a funeral policy or to protect your income, saving for your child’s education or a life-changing trip overseas, protecting your family or the lives of your employees, diversifying your assets or wanting to give back to your community, it’s important you find a financial advisor willing to provide tailored-made wealth and investment solutions for you and your family’s unique aspirations. Whatever Wealth means to you, Standard Bank’s advisory, insurance and investment solutions are tailored to you and your family’s unique aspirations, no matter where you are on your Wealth journey. Because #WealthisWithin Visit  https://www.standardbank.co.za/southafrica/wealth for more information. FAIS Disclaimer: Standard Bank is an authorised financial services and registered credit provider.