South African COVID-19 survivors are donating their blood to help in the fight against the pandemic, which has claimed the lives of 320,000 people worldwide. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - South African COVID-19 survivors are donating their blood to help in the fight against the pandemic, which has claimed the lives of 320,000 people worldwide. The donor's blood will be used in a clinical trial. The idea is to determine whether the plasma when separated from the blood, can help treat COVID-19 patients. The fight against COVID continues - and some survivors have come forward to help. READ: COVID-19: Health dept awaiting 'promising' antibody tests At least 30 of them have registered to donate their blood to the SA National Blood Service to be used in a clinical trial. The deputy dean of the Faculty of Health at the University of North West, Professor Andrew Robinson says the blood donation will play a significant role. “Those people who have been cured and have recovered from Corona have developed an immune system response because they got infected and got better their body was able to remove the virus and to heal them - So they’ll look at the antibodies that the body makes to see if these antibodies And what is the nature of the antibodies so that any new medicines can target and try to create that degree of immunity to people that have been not been infected,” said Robinson. He says while these trials are important, there is still a long way to go. “It will still take a long time many years before a cure is found - There is a standard method of testing new products first in the laboratory then and animals then in the healthy humans then insecure mints so all of that takes time.” Meanwhile, doctors and health experts say that people must continue to protect themselves by wearing masks, washing their hands and practicing social distancing. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.