President Cyril Ramaphosa at the meeting with Heads of State and Government of countries neighbouring South Africa on responses to the COVID-19 pandemic on Friday, 8 May 2020. JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Friday that African countries needed a two-year debt standstill due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, longer than a moratorium agreed by G20 governments last month. The World Bank and International Monetary Fund-backed initiative to suspend bilateral debt service for some of the world's poorest countries is expected to free up billions of dollars to fight COVID-19. READ: COVID-19: The worst is yet to come says Ramaphosa The World Bank and IMF have said that official creditors have mobilised up to $57-billion in emergency support this year for Africa. But the disease is exposing cracks in its under-equipped health systems, and they believe the continent still faces a funding gap of around $44-billion and will need more support next year. "While the World Bank and the IMF have supported a debt standstill for nine months, we believe that...we will need a debt standstill for two years," Ramaphosa, who currently chairs the African Union, told a conference call with heads of state from neighbouring countries. READ: G7 favours debt standstill for poorest countries, if G20 agrees He said he had called for the allocation of more IMF special drawing rights to help central banks, the corporate sector and small and medium-sized businesses navigate the massive economic shock from COVID-19. Charity groups and the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development have argued for a cancellation -- not just a debt standstill -- of poor countries' debts, saying that defaults by developing nations are inevitable. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs. 