Limited domestic air travel for business travel will be allowed under alert level three of the lockdown. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG – Limited domestic air travel for business travel will be allowed under alert level three of the lockdown. Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula made the announcement during a media briefing on transport regulations during the lockdown. Mbalula says strict restrictions will guide the number of flights per day based on the reason for travel. The minister said the resumption of domestic flights will be rolled out in three phases. READ: Date for transportation, distribution of liquor revealed During phase one, OR Tambo International Airport, King Shaka Airport, Cape Town International Airport and Lanseria will be opened. Phase two, Kruger Mpumalanga International Airport, Polokwane International Airport, Bram Fischer International Airport (Bloemfontein) will be opened. Phase three will see the re-opening of airports in Kimberley, East London, Upington, Mthatha and Port Elizabeth. Mbalula says only passengers will be allowed inside terminals at airports. Accompanying members of the public are prohibited. Passengers will be screened and have their temperatures recorded. All airport personnel will wear masks during the period. READ: SAA heroine dies of cancer Mbalula says consultations with transport industry bodies across various modes of transport has given them confidence that the majority of the sector is ready to resume operations with strict adherence to health protocols. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.