Western Cape police will now help the provincial health department to track down people who are refusing to self-isolate or self-quarantine after testing positive for COVID-19. Courtesy #DStv403 CAPE TOWN - Western Cape police will now help the provincial health department to track down people who are refusing to self-isolate or self-quarantine after testing positive for COVID-19. It comes after several members of the New Rest community in Gugulethu, Cape Town tested positive for the virus. Fear is mounting among residents in this part of Gugulethu. READ: Western Cape escalates COVID-19 response According to New Rest community leaders, it's believed at least seven people have tested positive for COVID-19 and are still roaming these streets. “Our concern as residents is that people are not taken into quarantine. People who have tested positive are living among us,” said community leader Sandisile Mjo. The provincial health department says some people who went for testing gave incorrect information and so, it hasn't been able to locate them. READ: ANC Western Cape wants province to revert to Level 5 lockdown This is forcing the department to take further steps. “The next step the department made was to contact the police as well as community leaders to assist, also to enforce the positive people to isolate in their houses. "If people can’t isolate in their house, the department does have safe and comfortable facilities," said Western Cape government health spokesperson, Monique Johnstone. READ: COVID-19: National government pledges to assist Western Cape Gugulethu falls under the Klipfontein area, which has recorded 518 cases of COVID-19. The provincial health department is worried people here aren't adhering to lockdown regulations and therefore risk infecting each other. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.