Grabbing a bite to eat, dining at a restaurant or even a quick stop for an ice cream used to be easy as pie. But the coronavirus has changed that. Under Level 4 lockdown regulations we are only allowed to order for delivery. But how has the restaurant industry been impacted? JOHANNESBURG - Grabbing a bite to eat, dining at a restaurant or even a quick stop for an ice cream used to be easy as pie. But the coronavirus has changed that. Under Level 4 lockdown regulations, we are only allowed to order for delivery. But how has the restaurant industry been impacted? READ: SA lockdown: Restaurant owners left with bitter taste The Restaurant Association of South Africa warns of possible job losses if the lockdown regulations continue. The association's Wendy Alberts says government has been ignoring its plight. Alberts said that bigger players in the industry and bigger businesses are starting to feel the pinch. READ: Restaurants unlock takeaways "The pressure is getting greater and greater in our restaurants. We’ve seen the repurcussions of the last two, three weeks in our industry," Alberts said. "We’ve seen the detrimental effect that deliveries-only has had on the infrastructure of the financial model that we’ve got. READ: SA Lockdown: Restaurant industry feels the pain Alberts said they have been in conversation with government about their requirements and requests. "But we just feel nobody is listening to the requirements that we've got. There is no appreciation for restaurants in South Africa," Alberts said. "We certainly need government listen to us. We're at a space where we're starting to lose a lot restaurants. "What is going to happen to restaurants at the other end of the curve?" - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.