Brand South Africa, as the official custodians of the South African Nation brand have created the Play Your Part Virtual Series to uplift the Nation. PARTNER CONTENT - This year the Play Your Part initiative television series has returned to our screens as a Virtual Series. The Virtual Series has emerged to shine the light on the good news stories currently taking place in South Africa. This year with the trials and tribulations of the COVID-19 worldwide pandemic, the Nation has suffered a tragic blow to morale as our physical interactions have been limited by the National lockdown set in place by Honourable President Cyril Ramaphosa. Brand South Africa, as the official custodians of the South African Nation brand have created the Play Your Part Virtual Series to uplift the Nation. The COVID-19 pandemic is one the most dangerous challenges we have faced as humankind and is unprecedented. It is only through unity that we can rise above this pandemic and help those who are vulnerable. The Play Your Part Virtual Series aims to inspire and ignite South Africans to take action and make a difference in their communities in spite of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Play Your Part Virtual Series goes live online 14 May 2020. According to Sithembile Ntombela, General Manager of Marketing of Brand South Africa and custodian of the Play Your Part initiative “It is during the hardships that we learn to be the best, our grand version. As a nation, hardship has brought us kindness, resilience, humanity and creativity. We each took a stand to play our part and give hope to those in hopeless situations. We have truly brought Ubuntu to life”. Through these challenging times Government, Corporates, NGO’s and the Community at large, have all come together  to play their part.  It has not all been doom and gloom, as private and public sector has come together to contribute in various ways (monetary and non-monetary). For more information on the Play Your Part initiative visit www.brandsouthafrica.com