File: Madonna said she had tested positive for antibodies which may mean she had COVID-19 -- though at the time she said she didn't realise she had it. PARIS - Madonna said she has recovered from the coronavirus which forced her to pull out of a string of concerts in Paris in February and March. The "Queen of Pop" said she had tested positive for antibodies which may mean she had COVID-19 -- though at the time she said she didn't realise she had it. "I am not currently sick," she told her 15 million followers on Instagram. "When you test positive for anti-bodies it means you had the virus, which I clearly did as I was sick at the end of my tour in Paris over seven weeks ago along with many other artists in my show," she said. Im Grateful that I can be a part of supporting Research to Find the cure for Covid -19!! 🙏🏼 And just to clear things up for people who would rather believe sensationalist headlines than do their own research about the nature of this virus— I am not currently sick. When you test positive for anti-bodies it means you HAD the virus which I. clearly did as I was  sick at the end of my tour in Paris over 7 weeks ago along with many other artists in my show but at the time  We  all thought we had a very bad flu.  Thank God we are all healthy and well now. Hope that clears  things up for the band wagon jumpers!! Knowledge is Power! #covid19 A post shared by  Madonna (@madonna) on May 6, 2020 at 10:18am PDT The 61-year-old star only played a single night in Paris on February 22 before calling off the next show, citing "ongoing injuries". She later called off two further Paris concerts -- the last in her Madame X world tour -- after French authorities banned large gatherings in a bid to stem the spread of the virus in early March. "At the time we all thought we had a bad flu," Madonna wrote in her post. "Thank God we are all healthy and well now." The singer revealed she had the virus after sharing an article about her donating $1.1-million towards research to find a vaccine for the coronavirus.