File: South Africa is the world's largest producer of platinum and chrome ore and a major miner of gold, diamonds and coal. JOHANNESBURG - The mines ministry published safety rules for mines operating during the coronavirus pandemic and said failure to implement them would be a criminal offence. South Africa, the world's largest producer of platinum and chrome ore and a major miner of gold, diamonds and coal, has gradually restarted operations after a nationwide lockdown. In April, the authorities relaxed regulations to allow deep level mines to operate at 50 percent capacity. READ: COVID-19: Amcu wants miners protected The publication of the guidelines follows a court ruling earlier this month requiring employers to implement a code of practice to manage and prevent the spread of COVID-19. "This is to ensure that mine employees returning to work and any other persons at mines, are protected from the transmission of the coronavirus at the workplace... whilst providing guidance to all stakeholders regarding their roles and responsibilities in the management of the virus," the mines ministry said. The regulations require mine operators to supply protective equipment, screen all people entering a mine, provide quarantine facilities, identify those with pre-existing conditions and carry out routine disinfection. READ: Mantashe orders mining companies to withdraw retrenchment letters They also have to keep mineworkers between one and two metres apart. Failure to enforce the rules would constitute a criminal offence, the mines ministry said, although it did not specify what penalties could be faced. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.