File: Formula One champion Lewis Hamilton said there were some positives to take from the crisis as people reflect on their lives, decisions, goals and careers. LONDON - Six-time Formula One world champion Lewis Hamilton has said he misses competing every day and the lack of races this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic had left a "big void" in his life. The French Grand Prix at Le Castellet in June was cancelled on Monday, becoming the 10th race to be affected by the outbreak in what was to have been a record 22-round season. READ: Hamilton ready to stick with Mercedes 'dream team' Formula One hopes to begin its delayed season in Austria in July without spectators before ending in Abu Dhabi in December after races in Asia and the Americas. "I miss racing every day. This is the first time since I was eight that I haven't started a season. When you live and breathe something you love, there's definitely a big void," the Mercedes driver said on social media. I miss racing everyday. This is the first time since I was 8 that I haven’t started a season. When you live and breath something you love, when it’s gone there’s definitely a big void. But there’s always positives to take from these times. Right now, we all have time in the world to reflect on life, our decisions, our goals, the people we have around us, our careers. Today, we see clearer skies all over the world, less animals being slaughtered for our pleasure simply because our demands are much lower and everyone staying in. Let’s not come back the same as we went into this tough time, let’s come out of it with better knowledge of our world, changing our personal choices and habits. Let’s come out of this as a new us, a new reinvigorated you, fitter, healthier and more focused but above all, kinder, more generous and gracious and caring for our world and the people in it. I hope we all do. #wecandothis #together #oneworld #wewinandwelosetogether A post shared by  Lewis Hamilton (@lewishamilton) on Apr 27, 2020 at 6:16am PDT The 35-year-old Briton, who has adopted a vegan lifestyle and is outspoken about environmental issues, said there were some positives to take from the crisis as people reflect on their lives, decisions, goals and careers. "Today, we see clearer skies all over the world, less animals being slaughtered for our pleasure simply because our demands are much lower and everyone staying in," he added. READ: French GP cancelled, no fans allowed at Silverstone "Let's not come back the same as we went into this tough time, let's come out of it with better knowledge of our world, changing our personal choices and habits." "Let's come out of this as a new us... fitter, healthier and more focused but above all, kinder, more generous and gracious and caring for our world and the people in it."