Gauteng is expecting high numbers of migrants to return for work, as the lockdown is being eased. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG – South Africa is now on a level 4 lockdown and there is likely to be more traffic on the road. More activity means authorities need to be on high alert to ensure the lockdown guidelines are observed. People who had left their province are allowed to return for work, but that's the only trip they can make between provinces. Gauteng is beefing up law enforcement at all its borders, as the level four regulations kick in. READ: South Africa enters into level 4 lockdown Authorities say there will be roadblocks across the province, to check and screen those returning to the province. The province is expecting high numbers of migrants to return for work, as the lockdown is being eased. Gauteng officials are bracing for a hive of activity at the province's borders but getting into the province won't be easy. “The inter-provincial boundary borders will have officers who will just ensure that the people who are coming back, is as the regulations need. “We are going to do screening and testing on those roads.” READ: Revised level four lockdown regulations A stern warning has been issued to anyone who wants to take a chance. Officials say while the lockdown has helped to flatten the curve, the economy has not been spared. Authorities say over 1.3-million people have now been screened for COVID-19 in the province. They say mass screening will be ramped up in the coming weeks while they've set a target of 3,000 tests to be conducted daily. Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs. The country is now on a level 4 lockdown and we're likely to see more traffic on the road. Courtesy #DStv403