84 percent of South Africans agree that a total lockdown was correct given the risks of the COVID-19 epidemic. This is according to an Ipsos survey to show how well the regulations are being received. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - A total of 84 percent of South Africans agree that a total lockdown was the correct measure given the risks of the COVID-19 epidemic. This is according to an Ipsos survey of how the regulations are being received. Ipsos spokesperson Mari Harris says a thousand people were canvassed. READ: South Africa enters into level 4 lockdown The survey found that those aged 56 years and older, and to a lesser degree those between 26 and 35 years, are less supportive. "The latter group’s apprehension might be related to having to look after young children or keeping them entertained during this period of lockdown," the survey found. Harris said they asked questions about how people felt about the lockdown and how they experienced it. READ: SA lockdown: Cele urges SA to adhere to Level 4 regulations "This [survey] covers about two-thirds of South Africans. They are representative to those people who have access to the internet, across all provinces, income groups and population groups," said Harris. "I do think it gives a good indication of how the connected part of South Africans think." Harris said a large majority of South Africans say if people contravene the regulations, there should be no grace for them and that they should be fined heavily. READ: 'It just got worse': Domestic violence surges under SA lockdown "What is interesting, is that 92 percent of people say that they think very carefully in the morning when they wake up about what they will do that day, whether they will meet anybody and where they will go and if they will go anywere." - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.