The South African Democratic Teachers Union also says its members will not report for duty. It says the Department is not ready to reopen schools. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - It remains unclear whether schools across the country will reopen for matrics and Grade 7 pupils by 1 June. Two weeks ago, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga announced schools will reopen in phases but many provincial education departments are urging principals and school management teams not to return to work on Monday. Last month, Motshekga explained how the 2020 academic year could be saved but now, this is in question, with provinces like KwaZulu Natal saying they're not ready. “There were a bit of delays in terms of procurement of things that are necessary for the cleaning of schools because we also accept that by the time these principals and SMT’s return to schools, the schools must have been cleaned. They must have been sanitized,” KZN Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu. READ: Sadtu firm on classroom health safety measures The Limpopo Education Department is also asking management teams not to report for duty on Monday but, some believe children aren't effective at spreading COVID-19. “Why is it that children are asymptomatic? Why do they develop mild symptoms? The plausible reason is that they have underlines immunity which allows them to control the virus much effectively than in adults,” said Professor Shabir Madhi, a vaccinology expert from Wits University. “What we are not speculating is that children are not at risk of developing severe disease”. READ: Can schools enforce fees payment? eNCA understands the Basic Education Minister will be having a meeting with all Education MECs on Monday to discuss the reopening of schools further. Meanwhile, two teachers' unions, Naptosa and Saou, are saying their members won't return to schools yet. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs. Two weeks ago, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga announced schools will reopen in phases. Courtesy #DStv403