File: The resumption of Super Rugby is impossible because of international travel bans so Australia is looking to follow New Zealand's lead by setting up a one-country competition to get players back on the pitch. SYDNEY - Rugby Australia are looking at potentially including both the Western Force and Japan's Sunwolves in a competition with their four Super Rugby sides to start in early July, high-performance manager Ben Whitaker said. The resumption of Super Rugby is impossible because of international travel bans so Australia is looking to follow New Zealand's lead by setting up a one-country competition to get players back on the pitch. "Since we postponed the competition in March, we've been speaking openly with the Western Force about their involvement and that remains really positive," he told reporters. READ: New Zealand's Super Rugby teams back in action from June "The Western Force are very much involved in all our plans." The Sunwolves were part of the Australian conference for the 2020 Super Rugby season, their last before they too were set for the axe from the otherwise southern hemisphere competition. While the difficulty of international travel makes the Tokyo-based side's inclusion more complicated, Whitaker said there had been discussions about locating the squad in Australia for the duration of the competition. "The Sunwolves would be located in New South Wales or Queensland," he said. "We're working closely with government on the opportunity for them to do that. READ: SANZAAR says member unions committed to Super Rugby "Once we know exactly what's happening with the Sunwolves, we'll be able to confirm the competition, the draw, and the like." Whitaker said the competition would last for 12 weeks from early July with the last two rounds encompassing the playoffs and final. The competition would run through the July test window meaning the two tests Australia were scheduled to host against Ireland and one against Fiji will almost certainly not be played, although the final call on that lies with World Rugby.