Trade and Industry Minister Ebrahim Patel detailed the announcement during a media briefing by the National Coronavirus Command Council. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG – Personal collection of takeaway meals from restaurants and supermarkets will be allowed under lockdown Level 3. Trade and Industry Minister Ebrahim Patel detailed the announcement during a media briefing by the National Coronavirus Command Council. “All the delivery services like drive-thrus and pick up services will be opened, you will also be to go to the takeaways and fetch your hot food and if you go into the supermarket, you will be able to get the grilled chicken,” Patel said. “All of these will have clear protocols to ensure that we don’t have people all waiting at the same counter.” READ: Restaurant owners left with bitter taste Government has also outlined that under Level 3, on-site consumption places for food, entertainment and recreation will remain closed. These include places such as restaurants, shebeens, taverns, nightclubs, bars, cinemas, theatres, fêtes, bazaars, casinos and similar places. Hotels, lodges, bed and breakfasts, timeshare facilities and resorts and guest houses, remain closed, except those that are accommodating remaining and confined tourists, persons lodging as a result of work purposes; and persons in quarantine or isolation. READ: Restaurants plead with government to reopen Meanwhile, the sale of liquor in licensed premises will now be permitted for the period between Mondays and Thursdays from 9am and 5pm. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.