People are making their way between the provinces as some sectors re-open and a seven-day grace period is allowed to facilitate people's return to work. Traffic authorities are on high-alert, screening people to make sure they can enter the province safely. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Traffic authorities are out in their numbers on Saturday to monitor people returning to Gauteng after the lifting of several lockdown restrictions. Many are expected back at work from Monday. People are making their way between the provinces as some sectors re-open. READ: Gauteng beefs up enforcement at borders Authorities have provided a seven-day grace period for provincial travel for essential workers. Major highways between Gauteng and other provinces have seen high volumes of traffic. Everyone passing through to the province is meant to be screened and if found to have symptoms of COVID-19, will be tested for the virus. People are making their way between the provinces as some sectors re-open and a seven-day grace period is allowed to facilitate people's return to work. Traffic authorities are on high-alert, screening people to make sure they can enter the province safely. Courtesy of #DStv403 Traffic officials said it is difficult to ensure that everyone entering the province is doing so for the right reasons. WATCH: Transport Minister's briefing on COVID-19 They are keeping a record of everyone passing through the traffic stops. A mobile clinic is available at the traffic stops to deal with any people who are showing symptoms of the virus. Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8 am to 4 pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.