President Cyril Ramaphosa says places of worship may open under level 3 subject to strict restrictions. Courtesy #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that places of worship may reopen subject to strict restrictions under level three of the lockdown. South Africa will move to lockdown level three from 1 June. Churches, temples, mosques, synagogues, and other recognised places of worship will resume services with a maximum amount of 50 people or less depending on the space available. Ramaphosa advised that social distancing will have to be observed and that face-masks will have to be worn by all congregants. WATCH: Ramaphosa meets religious leaders amid COVID-19 Under the previous lockdown regulations, religious places of worship had been closed since late March. The president said religious leaders will continue to officiate at funerals with no more than 50 people. Last week Ramaphosa held a virtual meeting with a range of faith leaders. Ramphosa said the meeting discussed government’s preparations for a differentiated approach across the country to the further reopening of the economy alongside the unrelenting effort to save lives. The meeting included the leadership of the South African Catholic Bishops Conference, the South African Council of Churches, the National Interfaith Council of South Africa, the Muslim Judicial Council, the Jewish Board of Deputies, the South African Hindu Maha Sabha, African Independent Churches, Charismatic/Pentecostal churches, African Traditional Faiths, the National Religious Leaders Council and the Southern African Interfaith Council was invited. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.