The African Farmers Association of South Africa in KwaZulu-Natal has donated cattle as part of its food relief programme. In total, 63 head of cattle have been contributed by farmers and the provincial government. Courtesy #DStv403 KWAZULU-NATAL - The African Farmers Association of South Africa in KwaZulu-Natal has donated cattle as part of its food relief programme. In total, 63 head of cattle have been contributed by farmers and the provincial government. They will be slaughtered and the meat distributed in food parcels to the needy across KwaZulu-Natal. These beasts are headed for a slaughterhouse to feed the needy severely affected by the extended COVID-19 lockdown. SA Lockdown: KZN preparing for level 3 “As much as we don’t have much, but let’s give the little that we have, which may make a difference in the lives of the people. We’ve noticed that everybody has been providing starch and providing some protein in some legumes but we decided to give what we have and as a result we resolved then to create a 5kg of meat that will be distributed,” said KZN African Farmers Association chairperson, Jabulani Mthembu. KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala has welcomed the farm association's gesture and is calling for more support for small and medium-scale farmers. “That’s why we are saying, let’s grow this sector for our self but also as a business that needs to be grown. That aids in ensuring that there is no food shortage, even post COVID-19. We must ensure that there is food supply to all people,” said Zikalala. The association says it will continue with its initiative to feed the nation through donations even after the lockdown ends. The African Farmers Association of SA is one of the organisation's lending a helping hand in Kwazulu-Natal during the lockdown. Dozens of cattle will be donated to feed those in need. Courtesy #DStv403 - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 1