Social Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu briefs the media on her department's response to COVID-19 as SASSA offices across the country opens up. JOHANNESBURG - Social Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu briefed the media on Monday on her department's response to COVID-19 under Level 4 lockdown. Sassa offices will be offering limited services from Monday. Mondays and Tuesdays will be used to receive grant applications from older persons. READ: Sassa offices reopen Priority will be given to those citizens who turned 60 just prior to or during the lockdown period who were unable to complete their applications before services were stopped. Wednesdays and Thursdays will be new applications for child support and foster child grants. "I wish to appeal to caregivers not to bring their children with when they go to the SASSA offices to minimise the risk of infection these young people may face," Zulu said. Temporary disability grants will be reinstated and paid until the end of October, including care dependency and foster care grants. The minister elaborated on regulations concerning the movement of children between households. Children have been allowed to move between homes under conditions of their caregivers having court orders but now, separated parents without court papers will be able to transfer children between homes. WATCH: Update on social relief grants Zulu announced there would be additional social workers allocated to each province that will be temporarily employed for three months. Unemployed persons can now apply for the social relief grant as digital platforms officially have gone live. People who are grant recipients already will not be eligible for the special COVID-19 relief grant. The contact details for the Sassa COVID-19 R350 social relief grant are:
Whatsapp number - 082 046 8553
USSD Code - * 134 * 7737#
Email - srd@sassa.gov.za(opens in new tab) Applicants must make sure they have their ID number, cellphone number and residential address when applying. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs.