US President Donald Trump threatened to shutter social media platforms after Twitter for the first time acted against his false tweets. WASHINGTON - US President Donald Trump threatened to shutter social media platforms after Twitter for the first time acted against his false tweets, prompting the enraged Republican to double down on unsubstantiated claims and conspiracy theories. READ: COVID-19: Trump defends use of unproven treatment Trump will sign an executive order "pertaining to social media" on Thursday, aides to the president said, without offering more detail about its contents. Twitter tagged two of his tweets in which he claimed that more mail-in voting would lead to what he called a "Rigged Election" this November. READ: Trump abruptly ends press conference after spat There is no evidence that attempts are being made to rig the election, and under the tweets Twitter posted a link which read: "Get the facts about mail-in ballots." For years, Twitter has been accused of ignoring the president's violation of platform rules with his daily, often hourly barrages of personal insults and inaccurate information sent to more than 80 million followers. READ: Twitter to label 'misleading' virus content But Twitter's slap on the wrist was enough to drive Trump into a tirade -- on Twitter -- in which he claimed that the political right in the United States is being censored. "Republicans feel that Social Media Platforms totally silence conservatives voices. We will strongly regulate, or close them down, before we can ever allow this to happen," he said. His torrent of angry tweets earned a top-10 trending hashtag: #TrumpMeltdown. Twitter founder and CEO Jack Dorsey fired back on his own platform Wednesday night, saying that the website's effort to point out misinformation did not make it an "arbiter of truth." READ: Twitter labels video retweeted by Trump as 'manipulated' "Our intention is to connect the dots of conflicting statements and show the information in dispute so people can judge for themselves," he tweeted. He doubled down on the new policy, writing: "Fact check: there is someone ultimately accountable for our actions as a company, and that's me. Please leave our employees out of this. We'll continue to point out incorrect or disputed information about elections globally. And we will admit to and own any mistakes we make."