KwaZulu-Natal authorities say some people in the province are behaving as if the lockdown is over. Courtesy #DStv403 DURBAN - KwaZulu-Natal authorities say some people in the province are behaving as if the lockdown's over. The province has the third-highest number of COVID-19 infections in the country after the Western Cape and Gauteng. Premier Sihle Zikalala says most citizens, motorists and business owners are violating the lockdown regulations. READ: Two KZN hospitals reopen "We are observing that since the announcement of the lowering of the national lockdown to Level 4, in places like the Durban CBD, Isipingo and others, and in certain shopping malls, it's as if the floodgates have been opened,” Zikalala said. “Some areas are bustling with activity, and the concept of social distancing has flown out of the window." Another headache for provincial authorities is the increase of COVID-19 cases at the General Gizenga Mpanza hospital in KwaDukuza. WATCH: Ramaphosa visits KZN to assess COVID-19 response Initially, 16 people tested positive for the virus. They include nine mothers, two babies, four doctors and one nurse. Netcare's St Augustine's and Kingsway hospitals reopened on Monday after they were closed for new admissions in April. It came after 50 COVID-19 infections and four deaths were identified at the two hospitals but, the Netcare Group's not off the hook just yet. READ: KZN to set up more COVID-19 quarantine sites “They've done what they were supposed to do in terms of cleaning and we are happy with that but the investigation isn't dead and it's continuing," said KwaZulu-Natal Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu. Despite a bleak picture, Zikalala says authorities won't advocate for a return to level five of the lockdown. Instead, they will enforce stricter measures across the province. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs. KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala says 1-thousand three hundred and seven people have tested positive for COVID-19 in the province, and 43 deaths have been recorded. Courtesy #DStv403