Bryan Adams made the comments in the caption of an Instagram post on Monday when he addressed the cancellation of his concerts at the Royal Albert Hall in London due to COVID-19. TORONTO - Canadian singer Bryan Adams apologised for a social media post in which he blamed China for the novel coronavirus. Adams, who first became a global star in 1984 with hits including "Summer of '69" and "Heaven", made the comments in the caption of an Instagram post on Monday when he addressed the cancellation of his concerts at the Royal Albert Hall in London due to COVID-19. Born in Kingston, Ontario, Adams currently lives in London and is a vegan. READ: Singer Bryan Adams under fire over COVID-19 post The post was widely condemned on social media, and Amy Go, president of the Chinese Canadian National Council for Social Justice, told the Canadian Broadcasting Corp that the singer's comments were "just so, so, so, so racist." In his apology, also posted on Instagram, Adams said he had no excuse, he "just wanted to have a rant about the horrible animal cruelty in these wet-markets being the possible source of the virus, and promote veganism." INTO THE FIRE. Title track from the same album. Apologies to any and all that took offence to my posting yesterday. No excuse, I just wanted to have a rant about the horrible animal cruelty in these wet-markets being the possible source of the virus, and promote veganism. I have love for all people and my thoughts are with everyone dealing with this pandemic around the world. Here’s the appropriately titled song that would have been performed tonight at the @royalalberthall . #bryanadamsintothefire #songsfromisolation #covid19 #banwetmarkets #govegan A post shared by  Bryan Adams (@bryanadams) on May 12, 2020 at 7:53am PDT Many researchers believe that the virus originated from a wet market in Wuhan, China, although a theory that the virus emerged from a lab in Wuhan has gained ground in recent weeks. The Chinese state-backed Wuhan Institute of Virology has dismissed the allegations. The World Health Organization (WHO) has said evidence suggest the novel coronavirus originated in animals, "most likely" in bats before spreading to humans through an intermediate animal host, and that there is no evidence to suggest it was created by humans.