JOHANNESBURG - Schools will reopen on 1 June. Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga has confirmed Grade 7 and 12 pupils will be the first groups to start learning. Motshekga says cabinet and the National Coronavirus Command Council have approved the decision. The new school calendar will be gazetted soon. SA lockdown: Mixed reaction to phased reopening of schools "We are confident that the reopening of school across provinces will happen as outlined in the protocol that has been developed," the minister said on Tuesday. Before speaking on school readiness, Motshekga condemned the vandalism of 1,577 schools nationwide. The majority of schools that have been vandalised are located in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. VIDEO: School pupils to return in phases The department named major issues affecting the reopening, including those related to service delivery problems and taking care of pupils with pre-existing conditions. PPE and other hygienic equipment are reportedly being issued to school staff from 25 May. Schools providing services to pupils with special needs will be separately managed, considering the needs of the pupils. READ: COVID-19: Education unions unhappy with department The department is working with the Department of Transport to ensure safety protocols are adhered to in school transportation. Motshekga said the department met with teacher unions and school governing associations together with the principals association to update them on the plans. - Coronavirus Hotline Number: 0800 029 999 from 8am to 4pm, Monday to Friday. Help protect your loved ones by sharing this official South African government COVID-19 service with your family, friends and community. Send HI to 0600 123 456 on WhatsApp. The NICD has another Clinician Hotline to improve #COVID19 communication and support for healthcare providers. The Clinician Hotline is 0800 11 1131, operating 24 hrs. The Public Hotline is 0800 029 999 also operating 24hrs. Covid Statement by Minister... by eNCA.com on Scribd 