File: This year has now seen three months of record warmth -- January, May and September -- with June and April virtually tied for first, the Copernicus Climate Change Service reported. PARIS - Earth's surface was warmer last month than during any September on record, with temperatures since January tracking those of the hottest ever calendar year in 2016, the European Union's Earth Observation Programme said. This year has now seen three months of record warmth -- January, May and September -- with June and April virtually tied for first, the Copernicus Climate Change Service reported. "There is currently little difference between 2020 and 2016 for the year-to-date," Copernicus senior scientist Freja Vambourg told AFP. For the 12-month period through September, the planet was nearly 1.3 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. READ: April 2020 tied for warmest on record: EU climate service That is alarmingly close to the 1.5C threshold for severe impacts detailed in a major 2018 report by the UN's climate science advisory panel, the IPCC. The Paris Agreement has enjoined nations to cap global warming at "well below" 2C, and 1.5C if feasible. So far, Earth has warmed on average by one degree, enough to boost the intensity of deadly heatwaves, droughts and tropical storms made more destructive by rising seas. Temperatures in September were "exceptionally high" over northern Siberia, which -- along with much of the Arctic Circle -- has seen freakishly warm weather for months. READ: January 2020 warmest on record: EU climate service September was brutal in the Middle East, with new high temperatures reported in Turkey, Israel and Jordan. Parts of North Africa and Tibet were also scorching hot, while maximum daytime values reached 49C in Los Angeles County early in the month. Across California, five of the state's six biggest wildfires in history were still burning at the end of the month. "September was warmer by 0.05C than September 2019, the previous warmest September," the Copernicus report said. Last month's global record for heat was all the more remarkable because of the regional cooling effect of a naturally occurring La Nina weather event over the tropical Pacific.