Cosatu and Saftu are calling on members to just stay away from work instead of taking to the streets to avoid contracting COVID-19. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Cosatu and Saftu are calling on members to just stay away from work instead of taking to the streets to avoid contracting COVID-19. The National Day of Action is the result of a lack of promises, protection and respect. Public sector workers say their employer -- government -- has neglected and betrayed them by not honouring the 2018 wage deal agreement. READ: Cosatu confirms national strike to go ahead on Wednesday According to the agreement, the public servants were meant to get their salary increases in April this year, but nothing so far. Safety in the workplace is a major concern for public sector employees. Teacher Masego Fisher said government has failed public servants. READ: PSA speaks out against job losses, corruption "That is a clear demonstration that our employer doesn't care about us. It's a sign of no respect and appreciation towards hard-working teachers even during this time of pain and anxiety caused by this pandemic," Fisher said. Sithembile Khumalo works at Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital. READ: Cosatu plans nationwide corruption protest for October "We have a problem with OHCS and safety," Khumalo said. "Besides the health protection the other health protocols, we become worried as you can see in the news, we see too much rape cases especially here in Gauteng. "Secondly, the reason I am joining the strike is because of the resolution one of 2018, which the government is fighting against now." Cynthia Msomi, another employee of Charlotte Maxeke Hospital, said, "we are essential workers, I think we can demand our rights and that the government has to pay us our money." Cosatu and Saftu are embarking on mass action. In Cape Town, protesters will begin in Langa and proceed to the Civic Centre to hand over a memorandum of demands. eNCA reporter Monique Mortlock updates from Langa. Courtesy of #DStv403 "The Federation is encouraging workers to exercise their right to challenge and contest this rigged economic system and we will be targeting government, private sector employers, and law enforcement agencies," a statement on the mass action reads. "We need to take a stand and push back against this flagrant theft of taxpayers funds and the disgraceful abandonment of the working class by policymakers and decisionmakers. The only way to undo this corrupt system is through disruption and non-cooperation and obstruction." A march will be taking place from Langa to the Cape Town Civic Centre to hand over a memorandum of grievances to Cape Town Mayor Dan Plato. The march will also make stops at the Western Cape provincial legislature and parliament.