The Democratic Aliance is back in the City of Tshwane. This after the Supreme Court of Appeal ruled in favour of the party. Courtesy #DStv403 TSHWANE - The DA has welcomed the decision by the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) to reinstate it in the City of Tshwane. The City was placed under administration a few months ago and has been without a mayor or council for months. Multiple council meetings have collapsed since last year December, with residents of Tshwane bearing the brunt of the political squabbling. The North Gauteng High Court not only set aside the provincial government's decision to place the municipality under administration, but also ordered all members of the ANC and EFF to attend council meetings. The SCA agreed with the High Court's decision and ruled the council must be immediately reinstated, allowing for a mayoral appointment. The DA has welcomed the decision by the Supreme Court of Appeal to reinstate it in the City of Tshwane. Courtesy of #DStv403 The new mayor will be elected as the council awaits the Constitutional Court judgment on the decision to place the city under administration and dissolve the council. READ: The complexities of coalition negotiations Interim DA leader John Steenhuisen said the court victory is important for democracy as well as the residents of Tshwane. Steenhuisen accused Gauteng Co-operative Governance MEC Lebogang Maile's use of what he called "petty politicking" to halt service delivery to Tshwane residents and accrue power through misuse of the Constitution and democratic process. WATCH: ANC briefing on Tshwane municipality issues "It [the court victory] has laid bare the very desperate, extreme lengths to which the ANC will go to, to try to circumvent democratic processes and the Consitution and to use their own governments and abuse the courts to cling to power in instances where they have clearly lost the trust of voters at the ballot box." MMC responsible for Economic Development and Spatial Planning, Randall Williams said the victory was important to affirm the autonomy of local government.