A modern social housing in the heart of Pretoria East is meant to reverse apartheid spatial planning. The government is planning to use big building projects to re-ignite the economy. Mooikloof Megacity residential complex in Pretoria will give low-income earners access to housing. Courtesy of #DStv403  PRETORIA - Government is planning to use big building projects to re-ignite the economy. Mooikloof Megacity residential complex in Pretoria will give low-income earners access to housing. The R30-billion initiative will also create 41,000 jobs. This project is meant to reverse apartheid town planning.
 
Balwin Properties CEO, Steve Brookes said, "out of everything bad in history something good comes and we've got 50,000 apartments for previously disadvantaged peoples, right in the heart of Mooikloof, in a wealthy upmarket suburb."
Perhaps more importantly, it could kickstart the economy.
President Cyril Ramaphosa said, "the emphasis, of course, will be on these types of infrastructure projects, to be spread across the country, so that they become the mini fly-wheels of the economic recovery that we want because they are a great job creator."
The President's office is leading the project, signalling the new approach. 
Presidency Investments and Infrastructure head, Kgosientso Ramokgopa said, "we know that COVID has decimated whatever was left of the fiscal headspace, so we need to financially engineer this project. To allow for private-sector money to be exploited to provide accommodation for low-income housing."
The government has committed to keeping a close eye on the money. Public Works Minister Patricia de Lille said, "we are dividing the risk between government and the private sector, and of course the beneficiaries. So, we have put systems in place whereby all the tenders that will go out from government's side, we will do due diligence on that. We will make sure the complete process is followed."
The Mooikloof development is meant to give low-income households access to housing closer to work. The President wants this to happen within a year - and said it will inform the government's approach to future projects.