Absa has introduced the digital card - an innovative and accessible game changer in the world of banking. SPONSORED: As the world changes and technology improves, the banking sector finds itself having to keep up. And with the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, hygiene concerns are also at the top of consumer minds. So how do we circumvent some of these obstacles? Well, by listening to what our customers want and providing them with solutions that will allow them to do more. Consumer trends show a clear move towards more contactless, digital and/or virtual banking. So at Absa we've introduced the digital card - an innovative and accessible game changer in the world of banking. The Absa Banking App provisions a digital version of your credit or debit card. The digital card on the app will still have the same security features and behavioural characteristics as the customers’ card on hand. The digital card has the same 16-digit card number, CVV and expiry date as your physical card. Provision of these card details is subject to customer registration to the Absa Banking App, success login and/or authentication to the Absa Banking App. For further peace of mind and with a simple touch of a button, the Banking App has security features that allows customers the option of locking or unlocking online transactions for both physical and digital cards. This will ensure that if any fraudulent activity is flagged on one or more of your cards, you can immediately lock the transaction ability which will prohibit fraudsters to make any purchases using your card details. There is no limit to the amount of times you can lock and unlock your account. Your safety is our top priority, so this feature will add two more layers of protection in order to perform transactions, including a pin or password to open your phone and then a fingerprint or pin to access the Absa Banking App. So what's next? Being able to view card details currently assists customers to transact online and use third party Tap to Pay apps to transact in physical stores with digital payment enabled devices without the need of a physical card. Absa is committed and will continue providing innovative features and/or propositions to our customers. We are in the process of developing and expanding our digital card use cases for our customers such as introducing digital payments from the Absa Banking App. Stay tuned, as the future of our banking offering is looking digital, bright, secure and hassle-free - just another way in which we do more so you can. To learn more: https://www.absa.co.za/ways-to-bank/absa-digital-card/