Allan Boesak, a founding member of the United Democratic Front, says the country of today, is not the one those freedom fighters hoped for. Courtesy of #DStv403 CAPE TOWN - "Don't become totally hopeless and give up on South Africa," is the word from the founding member of the historic United Democratic Front. Nearly 40 years ago, 500 organisations gathered in the Rocklands Civic Centre in Mitchells Plain to challenge apartheid's tricameral parliamentary system. That venue has been declared a national heritage site. Reverend Llewellyn MacMaster was one of the many ready for the challenge.
MacMaster said, "we were young then, it's many years ago, but it really inspired us. The slogan "UDF unites, apartheid divides" is what was our rallying point to stand together and for me it l launched me into more activism." READ: UDF veterans blast ANC leaders Already a provincial heritage site, the status of Rocklands Civic Centre has now been elevated even further.
UDF founding member Allan Boesak said, "it is recognising, at last, a truth that has been suppressed and marginalised and sometimes totally erased for 30 years now, the ANC has not ever given the weight it should have politically, historically and otherwise to what happened in Rocklands in 1983. And the impact of the UDF as part of the liberation movement."
Boesak said the country of today, is not the one those freedom fighters hoped for. "One of the greatest crimes of the last 25 years is the way our people's hopes and sacrifices have been betrayed. We did not know it would become this South Africa." MacMaster agreed, "looking back to say, where are we now with those ideals? I think that's where many people are disappointed, where many people are longing for a structure like the UDF, to bring people to together, to unite people again, but also there's a longing for that leadership we had that time."
While the new honour is welcomed, Boesak said now is the time to go beyond the symbolism it stands for.
He said, "I'm not trying to take away people's anger, because it's a righteous anger. What I am saying to people is don't become totally hopeless, don't think we can give up. There's no such thing as giving up."