File: US President Donald Trump. PARIS - World leaders on Friday wished US President Donald Trump and his wife Melania a quick recovery following his announcement that they were quarantining after testing positive for coronavirus. Russia "I am convinced that your vitality, good spirits and optimism will help you cope with this dangerous virus," the Kremlin quoted President Vladimir Putin as saying. "Of course we wish President Trump a speedy and easy recovery," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told journalists. UN UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres "sends his best wishes to President Trump and First Lady Melania Trump for a quick and complete recovery," his spokesman Stephane Dujarric said. WHO World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus wished the couple "a full and speedy recovery". Trump is pulling the United States out of the UN health agency, accusing it of mishandling the coronavirus pandemic and being too close to China. EU "Wishing @realDonaldTrump and @FLOTUS a speedy recovery. Covid-19 is a battle we all continue to fight. Everyday. No matter where we live," European Union chief Charles Michel said in a tweet, referring also to the First Lady of the United States. UK "My best wishes to President Trump and the First Lady," British Prime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted. "Hope they both have a speedy recovery from coronavirus." Johnson himself spent three nights in intensive care in April after contracting Covid-19. Germany "I send Donald and Melania Trump all my good wishes," Chancellor Angela Merkel's spokesman Steffen Seibert tweeted on her behalf. "I hope that they recover well from their corona infection and will be quite healthy again soon." NATO "My best wishes to @realDonaldTrump and @FLOTUS. I hope they both have a speedy recovery from COVID-19," the alliance's chief Jens Stoltenberg said. India "Wishing my friend @POTUS @realDonaldTrump and @FLOTUS a quick recovery and good health," Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter. Israel "Like millions of Israelis, Sara and I are thinking of President Donald Trump and First Lady Melania Trump and wish our friends a full and speedy recovery," Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said. Egypt "My sincere wishes for a speedy recovery to US President Donald Trump and the First Lady," Egyptian president Abdel Fattah al-Sisi said. He said he wanted the couple to "quickly overcome this stage and return to complete health and wellness to resume leading the valued US efforts to combat this virus worldwide". South Korea "Together with the people of the Republic of Korea, my wife and I wish you and the First Lady a speedy recovery. We would also like to convey our sincere words of encouragement and support to your family and the people of the United States of America," President Moon Jae-in said. Poland "Our good wishes for speedy recovery to our Friends @realDonaldTrump and @FLOTUS. #Poland and #USA will get through the hardships and succeed in fighting #COVID19," Polish President Andrzej Duda tweeted. Zimbabwe In Africa, Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa tweeted: "My best wishes to President Trump @realdonaldtrump and the First Lady @FLOTUS as they make a full recovery from COVID-19." Colombia In South America, Colombian President Ivan Duque tweeted: "With the news they have tested positive for #COVID19, we express our solidarity with the president of the United States, @realDonaldTrump and the First Lady, @MELANIATRUMP. We wish them a quick recovery." 