eNCA's Govan Whittles has been covering the story. Courtesy #DStv403 SENEKAL - Tensions were high in Senekal in the Free State on Friday. There was a standoff between the EFF and farmers in the town. READ: Senekal murder case: Tensions high outside court Protests were sparked by the murder of 21-year-old farm manager, Brendin Horner. A member of the Afrikaner survivalist group Kommandokorps speaks with a member of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) during a confrontation outside the Magistrates court in Senekal, South Africa, on October 16, 2020, ahead of the appearance of suspects in the murder case of 22-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner. Two suspects accused of killing Horner appeared in court. Their bail application has been postponed to Tuesday. Farmers protesting outside the Senekal magistrate's court are involved in a standoff with EFF protesters. Franz Jooste (R), the leader of the Afrikaner survivalist group Kommandokorps, gathers with other members outside the Magistrates court in Senekal, South Africa, on October 16, 2020, ahead of the appearance of suspects in the murder case of 22-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner. A man holds his hands to control a group of farmers gathering outside the Magistrates court in Senekal, South Africa, on October 16, 2020, ahead of the appearance of suspects in the murder case of 22-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner. Protesters hold placards during a protest against farm attacks outside the Magistrates court in Senekal, South Africa, on October 16, 2020, ahead of the appearance of suspects in the murder case of 22-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner. A member of the Afrikaner survivalist group Kommandokorps speaks with a member of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) during a confrontation outside the Magistrates court in Senekal, South Africa, on October 16, 2020, ahead of the appearance of suspects in the murder case of 22-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner. A man kneels while praying outside the Magistrates court in Senekal, South Africa, on October 16, 2020, ahead of the appearance of suspects in the murder case of 22-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner. Farmers protesting outside the Senekal magistrate's court are involved in a standoff with EFF protesters. Franz Jooste (R), the leader of the Afrikaner survivalist group Kommandokorps, gathers with other members outside the Magistrates court in Senekal, South Africa, on October 16, 2020, ahead of the appearance of suspects in the murder case of 22-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner. A man holds his hands to control a group of farmers gathering outside the Magistrates court in Senekal, South Africa, on October 16, 2020, ahead of the appearance of suspects in the murder case of 22-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner. Protesters hold placards during a protest against farm attacks outside the Magistrates court in Senekal, South Africa, on October 16, 2020, ahead of the appearance of suspects in the murder case of 22-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner. A member of the Afrikaner survivalist group Kommandokorps speaks with a member of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) during a confrontation outside the Magistrates court in Senekal, South Africa, on October 16, 2020, ahead of the appearance of suspects in the murder case of 22-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner. A man kneels while praying outside the Magistrates court in Senekal, South Africa, on October 16, 2020, ahead of the appearance of suspects in the murder case of 22-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner. Farmers protesting outside the Senekal magistrate's court are involved in a standoff with EFF protesters. Franz Jooste (R), the leader of the Afrikaner survivalist group Kommandokorps, gathers with other members outside the Magistrates court in Senekal, South Africa, on October 16, 2020, ahead of the appearance of suspects in the murder case of 22-year-old farm manager Brendin Horner.