More COVID-19 cases have been confirmed in the White House since President Donald Trump has been in hospital. The US President was taken to hospital on Friday. Courtesy #DStv403 WASHINGTON - Covid-hit President Donald Trump is "doing very well," his doctors said Saturday -- although an insider with knowledge of his health voiced concern over his condition. In the first official update on the president's condition since he was admitted Friday to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, medics were upbeat about his progress. READ: Donald Trump tests positive for COVID-19 "At this time, the team and I are extremely happy with the progress the president has made," White House physician Sean Conley said, adding that the president had been "fever-free for over 24 hours." "We have monitored his cardiac function, his kidney function, liver function. All of those are normal," Sean Dooley, another member of Trump's medical team, added. But a source familiar with the president's health painted a less rosy account. "The president's vitals over the last 24 hours were very concerning and the next 48 hours will be critical in terms of his care. We're still not on a clear path to a full recovery," the source said. Conley sidestepped journalists' questions about whether Trump had received oxygen treatment at any point before revealing that the president was not on oxygen on Thursday or at any point since he arrived at Walter Reed. He said Trump was "just 72 hours into the diagnosis now" -- implying that he was known to be sick a day before his test result was announced. But the White House later clarified that Conley meant to say Saturday was the third day since the president's positive test result late Thursday. READ: Trump hospitalised for COVID-19 treatment Soon after Trump arrived at Walter Reed, Conley said in a memo that the president was starting a course of therapeutic drug remdesivir and had received an eight-gram dose of an experimental polyclonal antibody cocktail. Conley would not put a "hard date" on Trump's discharge from the hospital or disclose the president's temperature.