Peter Murimi is the latest filmmaker to depict a same-sex relationship in sub-Saharan Africa in the face of religious and cultural conservatism. AFP/Tolga Akmen LONDON - The Kenyan director behind a new documentary about a gay couple struggling for acceptance in the east African country hopes its film industry can mirror Hollywood's progressive role in promoting LGBTQ rights. Peter Murimi, whose documentary "I Am Samuel" screened at the London Film Festival, is the latest filmmaker to depict a same-sex relationship in sub-Saharan Africa in the face of religious and cultural conservatism. He believes portraying more gay people on the big screen across the continent, alongside moves to decriminalise homosexuality, can make LGBTQ rights a mainstream issue. "The role Hollywood played in furthering LBGTQ rights in the United States was really big, it cannot be understated," Murimi told AFP on the sidelines of the festival. READ: What do we tell the kids? Children's TV struggles with LGBTQ characters "You could just see gay people on TV and in Hollywood, and slowly and slowly it became much easier (for them). "They say 'you win the hearts, and once the hearts are won the law is irrelevant'," he said, adding "film can play that role". Murimi, a multiple award-winning director known for tackling complex social issues, is unsure if he will get permission from Kenyan authorities to show "I Am Samuel". He believes Kenya is becoming more tolerant, despite the protagonists of his documentary having to move home for their own safety. READ: LGBTQ community takes over Proud Boys hashtag The filmmaker said they also have a plan ready should the film provoke a backlash inside Kenya. "In the last 10 years (LGBTQ rights have) really actually been making a lot of strides in a positive way," Murimi insisted. "So we'll just try our best and hopefully Kenyans will see it and that's what we want." Murimi is encouraged by the reception of other recent high-profile African films about gay relationships. READ: Kenya bans lesbian love story film 'Rafiki' The 2018 movie "Rafiki", about a lesbian love affair, was initially banned by Kenya's censors but that was later overturned, and it went on to have some sold-out screenings. Meanwhile last year's British-Nigerian co-production "Walking With Shadows", chronicling the fallout from a romantic relationship between two Nigerian men, earned critical acclaim after a limited release in Lagos.