Serbia's Novak Djokovic returns the ball to Russia's Karen Khachanov during their men's singles fourth round tennis match of The Roland Garros 2020 French Open tennis tournament. PARIS - Novak Djokovic admitted he suffered an "awkward moment of deja vu" after unintentionally hitting a ball which smashed into the head of a line judge at Roland Garros on Monday. World number one Djokovic racked up his 35th win of 2020 and a place in the Paris quarter-finals for the 14th time with a 6-4, 6-3, 6-3 win over Russia's Karen Khachanov. However, he had a heart-in-the-mouth moment when he stretched for a forehand in the first set and the ball flew off the frame of his racquet before spearing into the unsuspecting baseline judge sitting nearby. The Serb went immediately to the official to check he was unhurt. READ: Djokovic storms to 70th win at Roland Garros The incident came just weeks after Djokovic was defaulted at the US Open in New York for swiping angrily at a ball which hit a female line judge, standing just behind him, in the throat. That disqualification remains the only defeat Djokovic has suffered all year. "My gosh, it was very awkward deja vu. I'm actually trying to find the linesperson and see if he's okay because I saw he had a little bit of a bruise, like redness, in that place in the head where the ball hit him," said 33-year-old Djokovic who has now reached the quarter-finals for an 11th straight year. "I hope he's fine. I mean, he definitely dealt with it in a very strong and brave way. But it was a hit because I was very close. READ: Djokovic disqualified from US Open "Obviously because of what happened in New York, people I guess are going to make the story out of this. It has happened to me and to many other players in the last 15 years that I've been on the tour. "I've seen it a lot when the ball ricochets from the racquet and the frame, hits someone in the stands, or someone that is close to you or line umpire. Yeah, it was a very awkward situation." Djokovic, chasing a second title in Paris and 18th career Grand Slam, will face either Spain's Pablo Carreno Busta or unseeded Daniel Altmaier of Germany for a place in the semi-finals.