Australia's Reece Hodge kicks a penalty during the Bledisloe Cup rugby union match between New Zealand and Australia. AFP/Marty Melville WELLINGTON - All Blacks playmaker Richie Mo'unga conceded that the Wallabies were the better team in the drawn Bledisloe Cup opener over the weekend, while Australia's Reece Hodge lamented the missed penalty that cost his side victory. The southern hemisphere heavyweights fought out a 16-16 draw in Wellington on Sunday, ending international rugby's pandemic-enforced shutdown with a Test match hailed as an instant classic. Fly-half Mo'unga was full of praise for the Wallabies, who entered the match as underdogs but came within the width of a goalpost of recording a major upset to mark new coach Dave Rennie's first match in charge. "I think they were a little bit better because they imposed themselves on us a little bit more," Mo'unga told reporters. "We didn't have the ball much, and when we did we gave it away." READ: All Blacks, Wallabies relaunch Test rugby with a thriller With the score level at 16-16 after the final siren had sounded and the All Blacks on the attack, Mo'unga said he positioned himself for a match-winning drop goal but the ball never came his way. "I dropped into the pocket, but momentum had us and we looked likely to score, so a dropkick wasn't in the question," he said. "Had Jordie (Barrett) had got the pass... we wouldn't really be talking about dropkicks, but it definitely was on my mind." Hodge, meanwhile, said he hadn't been able to sleep easily Sunday night, haunted by the penalty from 55 metres out that would have sealed victory for the Wallabies as the clock ticked past 80 minutes. The replacement wing's booming kick was easily long enough, but it thumped into the upright. READ: Spectators to be allowed at All Blacks, Wallabies Test Mo'unga described the kick attempt as "pretty awesome" in Wellington's swirling wind and rain, although Hodge admitted he was "beating himself up" over the miss. "It was a bit of a broken sleep last might, I've probably replayed it hundreds of times by now," the Melbourne Rebels back said. "Obviously it was pretty swirly wind. In the warm-up they (kicks) were going everywhere, left, right... I aimed it just inside the left post, just outside would have been a bit better. "But I hit it as well as I could have and was kind of praying when it was in the air."