Gauteng Premier David Makhura announced on Friday that Dr Bandile Masuku, former-Gauteng Health MEC has been discharged of his responsibilities after the premier considered an SIU report into the matter. Courtesy of #DStv403 JOHANNESBURG - Gauteng Premier David Makhura has announced that Gauteng Health MEC Bandile Masuku has been discharged of his responsibilities. The premier conducted upgrade inspections at Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital on Friday. His visit started with the province's COVID-19 update. The premier spoke on the current SIU investigation report relating to personal protection equipment corruption in Gauteng before announcing his decision. READ: SIU report for Ramaphosa's eyes only "Those with authority could have done more and they didn't. Others [are implicated] because they did things that are clearly wrong." Makhura emphasised the province intends to recoup the money misappropriated. The premier said he has been receiving weekly reports from the SIU on the corruption with ongoing recommendations. He also stated action must be taken against businesses who colluded with corrupt government officials. READ: SIU 'making progress' in probing COVID-19 deals Makhura said he received a report last week on Friday "on the matter of the role of the Health MEC in the PPE" which stated, "Health MEC Bandile Masuku failed to execute his functions in compliance with the Constitution and the Public Finance Management Act" and recommended that the premier should take administrative action against the MEC. Makhura stated he has subsequently decided to discharge Masuku, who has been placed on special leave, from his responsibilities. However, Makhura has made it clear that Masuku hasn't been found guilty of corruption. He says investigations into alleged PPE corruption are still ongoing. The current acting MEC Jacob Mamabolo will continue in the position while the investigation into acts of corruption and collusion around PPE procurement is completed. Makhura said Masuku could be reinstated as MEC should the SIU investigation exonerate him of collusion and corruption.