Parliamentarians have debated President Cyril Ramaphosa's economic recovery plan. The plan focuses on reviving the economy after lockdown. But with recent cases of corruption and the mismanagement of funds in government, opposition members have one question: Where will the money come from to execute the plan? Lindsay Dentlinger spoke to Sally Burdett about this. Courtesy #DStv403 CAPE TOWN - Members of Parliament responded to President Cyril Ramaphosa’s Economic Reconstruction and Recovery Plan. The plan, presented last week, aims to mitigate the economic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The pandemic has led to millions of jobs being lost and further contraction of the economy, which officially entered a recession in March. Opposition parties voiced criticism for the plan which they called unrealistic, lacking in new insights and lacking details of how the plan would be implemented. READ: IMF warns of lasting damage, long climb out of recession Tourism Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane opened the parliamentary debate by providing a summarised account of the plan, identifying the crux of the proposed way forward as building an inclusive economy. Kubayi-Ngubane said the economic structure will head up the implementation of the plan and will receive monthly progress reports to hold office bearers accountable. Corruption and dealing with criminal elements was named as a key point of ensuring effective implementation of the plan. Interim-leader of the official opposition John Steenhuisen had a negative outlook on the outcomes of the plan, saying the plan was a “wishlist of working intentions”. READ: Ramaphosa reveals plan to reignite economy While the DA interim-leader acknowledged there is “some good” in the plan, he said much of it is flawed and said the president is surrounded by people who cannot bring economic reform. The Democratic Alliance also stated the government’s management of the COVID-19 pandemic, including the national lockdown, exacerbated the economic impact of the virus. The DA's Geordin Hill-Lewis stated that no progress has been made on the president’s reform promises in 500 days of leadership. Hill-Lewis said in order to advance, Ramaphosa should get rid of ministers who stand in the way of progress, commit to definite timeframes for actions to be taken and refuse further bailouts for stated-owned entities like SAA. READ: Police top of corruption charts, report finds Freedom Front Plus leader Pieter Groenewald called corruption a pandemic that is worse than COVID-19. Groenewald stated the state cannot create jobs but must, instead, create a conducive environment for investment. He urged a shift away from government involvement in the economy saying, "Government is inviting public partners but you want to be the project managers.” EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu’s comments on the plan mainly focused on the absence of land reform commitments. "What type of an economic recovery plan omits the land question because land and all that it comes with is the foundation of real economic activity and expansion. "Nothing in your so-called economic recovery plan suggests that the black majority and Africans, in particular, must reclaim the land and gain independent access to the economy without the assistance of and reliance on white people," he said. READ: Global and historical lessons on land reforms The party said investment into domestic production sectors, particularly in manufacturing, needs to be given priority to grow the economy. “While infrastructure development is an important ingredient to economic expansion, the very fact that such will be anchored by imported goods, products and services is inappropriate.” The EFF representative’s comments were cut short due to time. Former Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) leader Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi presented the party’s comments on the economic plan, echoing the DA in calling it a “wishlist”. Buthelezi differed by saying the wishlist is an excellent one. "Like a country at war we must put aside our political differences to rebuild," he said but stated the plan is unattainable at a 3 percent growth rate. READ: Stats SA release GDP figures Buthelezi asked where the money will come from to execute the plan, saying, national debt is too high and corruption and mismanagement have depleted state reserves. He raised concerns that organised labour has been embarking on increased industrial action, and drew attention to calls for increases on social grants. "Handouts must give way to hand-ups. We need to empower our people towards self-reliance," Buthelezi said. UDM leader retired-general Bantu Holomisa reiterated the criticism from some opposition leaders that the recovery plan did not contain any new information. Holomisa also asked for more clarity on specifics of the implementation of the plan. “We would be better off seeing a map of when, where and how the plans will be implemented.” READ: Holomisa: We cannot expect ANC to investigate itself The UDM leader also said corruption is a pervasive problem, calling the state a source of easy money fraught with abuse. Holomisa said the government tolerates unfinished projects and poor workmanship. Gauteng premier David Makhura spoke positively on the plan, saying it would provide opportunities for marginalised communities, including women and the youth. Makhura said growing the township economy will be key to an inclusive recovery plan and named the Township Economic Development Bill as a step forward in removing barriers to township businesses. "We need to decentralise economic development and allow for other pockets in the province to prosper.” READ: Lawyers for Human Rights raises concerns about township economy bill Makhura called the bill “a lifeline for township entrepreneurs” and rubbished claims that it seeks to discriminate against businesses run and operated by foreign nationals. ANC MP Judith Tshabalala said the governing party puts its weight behind the President's plan. Tshabalala took shots at opposition MPs, namely the DA, saying they should concentrate on dealing with corruption within their own ranks. “You cry about corruption, speak about the corruption of your PPEs in the Western Cape. Did you do anything about it?” KZN Premier Sihle Zikalala voiced agreement with the President’s recovery plan, saying the expedite port development and focus on agriculture would greatly benefit the province. The president defended aspects of his plan while calling for the support of all members of parliament to implement it effectively. WATCH: MPs debate Ramaphosa's economic recovery plan Ramaphosa said while the plan might not sound like something new, it indicates a new resolve and a new determination borne from a critical situation. The president stood by the government’s decision to implement a hard lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19, saying there is evidence that many more lives could have been lost. Ramaphosa said the priority aspects of the plan: infrastructure investment, employment stimulus, energy security, localisation, and building state capacity will create an inclusive economy from the ashes of the pandemic. “Infrastructure investment is what defines a nation and we are now on the cusp of seeing a robust infrastructure investment.” The president said the plan is not intended for the gain of any one political party, but for the people of South Africa. Ramaphosa called for MPs to hold the governing party accountable but also lend their abilities to implement the plan.