The southern hemisphere heavyweights are preparing this week for Sunday's Bledisloe Cup opener. WELLINGTON - International rugby resumes this weekend when New Zealand's All Blacks face Australia's Wallabies in Wellington, but the mood ahead of the match is one of festering resentment rather than celebration. As the southern hemisphere heavyweights prepared this week for Sunday's Bledisloe Cup opener, Rugby Australia chairman Hamish McLennan admitted relations with his New Zealand counterparts were at an all-time low. "There is respect there, but the relationship is at probably the lowest ebb it's ever been," he said. The Wellington Test was in danger of not going ahead when Australia coach Dave Rennie complained that New Zealand's strict border controls would prevent his team training together, leaving them ill-prepared to face the All Blacks. READ: Fuming New Zealand voted for Rugby Championship dates: reports "Under those quarantine arrangements, I can assure you we won't be playing a Test that weekend," he said, prompting officials in Wellington to back down and ease the rules. The New Zealanders were keen to host the two-Test Bledisloe series after losing rights to stage the upcoming Rugby Championship to Australia, another sore point in trans-Tasman relations. SANZAAR and the Australians then further angered New Zealand by scheduling their final Test on December 12, meaning players face the prospect of spending Christmas in isolation under New Zealand's two-week quarantine requirements. "I've had one player that has barged in my door and said 'I'm not playing at Christmas'," New Zealand coach Ian Foster revealed. READ: Australia to host 2020 Rugby Championship The Australians countered that if the Kiwis had been hosting they would have forced the Wallabies into Christmas isolation, and claimed New Zealand Rugby had signed off on a schedule that included the December 12 Test. New Zealand Rugby denied both allegations, saying it had been "blindsided", and has not ruled out boycotting the final Rugby Championship fixture. "We do challenge those that have made comments concerning NZR's integrity, we defend our position and we're firm on it," NZR chairman Brent Impey said, insisting New Zealand never agreed to a Test on the disputed date. As it stands, New Zealand and Australia are set to continue to operate separate domestic Super Rugby competitions in 2021, although plans remain fluid in such uncertain times. Whatever happens, the battle on the pitch between the All Blacks and Wallabies at Wellington Regional Stadium on Sunday may have a hard time matching the fireworks off the field.